There is but one God. True is His Name, creative His personality and immortal His form. He is without fear sans enmity, unborn and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Embrace His meditation.
True in the prime, True in the beginning of ages,
True He is even now and True He verily, shall be, O Nanak!
By pondering on God, man cannot have a conception of Him, even though he may ponder over lacs of times.
Even though one be silent and remains absorbed in Lord's constant love he obtains not mind's silence.
The hunger of the hungry departs not, even though they may pile up loads of the world's valuables.
Man may possess thousands and lacs of wits, but not even one (goes with him) avails him in the Lord's court.
How can we be true and how can the screen of untruth be rent?
O Nanak! By obeying, the pre-ordained order of the Lord's will.
By the Lord's order bodies are produced. His order cannot be narrated.
With His fiat the souls come into being and with His fiat greatness is obtained.
By His command the mortals are make high and low and by His written command they obtain woe and weal.
Some obtain gifts through His order and some through His order are ever made to wander in transmigration.
All are subject to His fiat and none is exempt from His fiat.
O Nanak! if man were to understand Lord's fiat, then no one would take pride (speak in ego).
Who can sing His might? Who has power to sing it?
Who can sing His bounties and know His resplendent effulgence?
Some chant the Lord's beautiful excellences and magnificences.
Who can chant God's Knowledge, whose study is arduous?
Some sing that He fashions the body and then reduces it to dust.
Some sing that God takes away life and again restores it.
Some sing that God seems and appears to be far off.
Some sing that He is beholding us just face to face.
There is no dearth of persons who dwell upon the Lord's discourses.
Millions give millions upon millions of descriptions and sermons regarding God.
The Giver continues giving but the recipients grow weary of receiving.
All the ages through the partakers partake of His provision.
The Commander, by His command, makes man walk on His path.
O Nanak! the carefree Master makes merry.
True is the Lord, true His Name and the true have repeated His Name with infinite love.
People pray and beg: "give us alms, give us alms", and the bestower bestows His gifts.
Then, what should be placed before His where-by His court may be seen?
Which words should we utter with our mouths by hearing which, He may begin to bear us love?
Early in the morning utter the True Name and reflect upon God's greatness.
By Good actions the physical robe is obtained and by the Lord's benediction the gate of salvation.
Know thus, O Nanak! that the True One is all by Himself.
He is neither established nor created by any one.
That Pure One is all in all Himself.
They who serve Him, obtain honour.
O Nanak! sing praises of the Lord who is the treasure of excellences.
With the Lord's love reposed in thy heart sing and hear His praises.
Thus shalt thou shed pain and shalt take happiness to thy home.
Gurbani is the Divine Word, Gurbani the Lord's Knowledge and through Gurbani the Lord is realised to be all pervading.
The Guru is Shiva, the Guru Vishnu and Brahma, the Guru is Shiva's consort Parbati, Vishnu's consort Lakhshmi and Brahma's consort Saraswati.
Even though I Know God, I cannot narrate Him, He cannot be described by words.
The Guru has explained one thing to me.
There is but one Bestower for all the beings May, I never forget Him.
If I become pleasing to Him that is my pilgrimage bath. Without pleasing Him of what avail is the ablution?
All the created beings, that I behold, without good acts what are they given and what do they obtain?
In the mind are gems, jewels and rubies, provided thou you act upon (hearken to) even one instruction of the Guru.
The Guru has explained one thing to me.
There is but one Bestower for all the beings. May, I never forget Him.
Though a man's age be equal to four ages and grow even ten times more,
Even though he be known in the nine continents and all were to walk with him (or follow in his train),
and he were to assume good name and obtain praise and renown in the world.
If God's gracious glance falls not one him, them, no one would care for him,
he is accounted a vermin amongst worms and even the sinners impute accusations to him.
O Nanak! God grants virtue to the non-virtuous and bestows piety on the pious.
I can think of no such one who can show any goodness unto Him.
By hearing God's Name the mortal becomes a perfect person, religious guide, spiritual hero and a great yogi.
By hearing God's Name the reality of the earth, it's supposed supporting bull and the heaven is revealed unto the mortal.
By hearkening to the Lord's Name man comes to have the knowledge of the continents, the worlds and the nether regions.
By hearing the Lord's Name death cannot torment (touch) the mortal.
O Nanak! the devotees ever enjoy happiness.
By hearing to the Master's Name sorrow and sin meet with destruction.
By hearing the Lord's Name the status of god of death, god of creation and god of rain is obtained.
By hearing God's Name even the evil come to sing Lord's praises with their mouth.
By hearing God's Name the mortal understands the ways of uniting with the Lord and the body's secrets.
By hearing the Lord's Name the Knowledge of the four religious books, six school of philosophy and twenty seven ceremonial treatise is acquired.
Ever blissful are the saints, O Nanak!
By hearing the Lord's Name disease and wickedness are wiped off.
By hearkening to the Lord's Name truthfulness, contentment and Divine Knowledge are obtained.
By hearing the Lord's Name the fruit of the ablution at sixty-eight holies is attained.
By hearing and constantly reading God's Name man gains honour.
By hearing the Name, man easily procures the Lord's meditation.
Ever blissful are the saints, O Nanak!
By hearing the Lord's Name disease and wickedness are wiped off.
By hearing the Lord's Name man dives deep into the oceans of virtues.
The hearkening of the Lord's Name renders the mortal a scholar, spiritual guide and a monarch.
By hearing the Master's Name the blind find their way.
By hearing the Master's Name the unfathomable Lord becomes fathomable.
Ever blissful are the saints, O Nanak!
By hearing the Lord's Name disease and wickedness are wiped off.
The condition of the mortal who obeys the Lord cannot by described.
If someone tries to describe he repents afterwards.
There is no paper, pen, and scribe,
with whom to sit and write over (reflect) the state of God's obeyer.
Such is the Name of the immaculate Lord.
if some one obeys God, such a solitary being understands the bliss there of in his very mind.
By truly believing in the Lord's Name Divine comprehension enters man's mind and understanding.
By truly believing in God's Name the Knowledge of all the spheres is acquired.
The worshipper of God suffers not blows on his face.
Through inner belief in the Lord's Name man goes not with death's minister.
Such is the stainless Name of God.
If someone puts faith in the Lord's Name, he shall, then understand it within his mind.
The believer in God's Name meets not obstruction in the way.
The Name's believer departs with honour and renown.
The Name's believer walks not on the ritualistic religious paths.
The believer in God's Name has an alliance with righteousness.
Such is the stainless Name of God.
If someone puts faith in the Lord's Name, he shall, then understand it within his mind.
The obeyer of the Lord's dictates obtains the door of salvation.
The obeyer of the Lord's dictates reforms his kith and kin.
The obeyer of the Lord's fiat saves himself and saves the Sikhs of the Guru.
The obeyer of the Lord's fiat goes not begging.
Such is the stainless Name of God.
If some one puts faith in the Lord's Name, he shall then, understand it within his mind.
The elect are acceptable and the elect supreme.
The saints obtain honour in the Lord's Court.
God's slaves look beauteous in the Court of kings.
The chosen center their attention on the Guru alone.
No matter how much someone may narrate and reflect,
But there can be no enumeration of the Creator's doing.
The mythical bull is piety, the offspring of compassion, which is patiently holding the earth in order.
the offspring of compassion, which is patiently holding the earth in order.
If some one understands this, he becomes a true man:
How much load there is on the bull?
There are more worlds beyond this earth, more and more.
What power is that which supports their weight from underneath?
The Kinds, colours and names of all the beings,
were all inscribed by the ever-flowing pen of God.
A few know how to pen this account.
How voluminous would be the scribed scroll?
What might and fascinating beauty are Thine, O Lord?
How great is Thy gift? Who can assess its extent.
With One Word Thou didst effect the world's expansion
and where by lacs of rivers began to flow.
What power have I to describe (Thee or Thine doctrines)?
I cannot even once be a sacrifice unto Thee.
Whatever pleases Thee, that is a good pursuit.
Thou art ever safe and sound, O Formless One!
Countless are Thine meditations and countless those who meditate on Thee with Love.
Countless are Thine worships and countless they who practise penance.
Countless are the scriptures and extempore reciters of Vedas.
Countless are the yogis who remain detached (in mind) from the world.
Countless are the votaries who reflect over the Lord's excellences and theology.
Countless are the men of piety and countless the men of bounty.
Countless are the warriors who eat steel with their mouth (bear the brunt on their face).
Countless are the silent sages who center their love and attention on the Lord.
What power have I to describe Thine doctrines (Thee)?
I cannot even once be a sacrifice unto Thee.
Whatever pleases Thee, is a good pursuit.
Thou art ever safe and sound, O Formless One!
Numberless are the fools, appallingly blind.
Numberless are the thieves and the devourers of other's property.
Numberless depart after establishing their sovereignty by force.
Numberless are those who cut throats and commit murders.
Numberless are the sinners who go on committing sins.
Numberless are the liars who wander in falsehood.
Numberless are the dirty-wretch who partake filth as their ration.
Numberless are the slanderers who carry on their heads loads of sins.
Nanak, the lowly, gives description.
I cannot even once be a sacrifice unto Thee.
What ever pleases Thee, that is a good pursuit.
Thou art ever safe and sound, O Formless One!
Innumerable are Thine Names and innumerable Thine abodes, O Lord!
Innumerable are Thine realms, inaccessible and inscrutable.
Even to call them myriad amounts to carrying load of sin on the head.
Through words Thy Name is uttered and through words Thou art praised.
Through words the songs of Thy theology and Thine attributes are hymned.
In letters the uttered hymns are recorded.
Destiny is described with letters on Mortal's brow.
But He (God) who scribed these destinies has no scribes on his head (His head bears it not).
As He ordains, so do men obtain.
As great is thy creation, so great is Thine celebrity.
Without Thy Name, there is no place.
What power have I to describe Thine doctrines (Thee)?
I cannot even once be a sacrifice unto Thee.
Whatever pleases Thee; that is a good pursuit.
Thou art ever safe and sound, O Formless One!
The dust of the besmeared hands, feet and other parts of the body,
is removed by washing with water.
The garment polluted with urine,
is washed clean by applying soap.
The soul defiled with sins,
is cleaned with the love of God's Name.
By mere words of mouth (statements) a man becomes not virtuous or vicious.
The often repeated actions are engraved on the heart.
Man himself sows and himself reaps (he reaps what he sows).
By God's Order, O Nanak! man comes and goes.
Pilgrimage, penance, compassion and alms giving,
bring only a sesame (tiny amount) of honour (merit), if any.
Whoever heartily hears, believes and loves God's Name,
obtains salvation by thoroughly bathing in the shrine within himself.
All virtues are Thine, O Lord! I have none.
Without acquiring the virtues, Lord's devotional service can not be performed.
My obeisance is unto God, who Himself is the creator of world and Brahma etc.
He is true and beautiful and rapture ever abides within His mind.
What the time, what movement, what lunar day, what week day,
and what the season and what month, when the creation came into being?
The Pundits find not the time, even though it be mentioned in the Puran's texts.
Nor do the Qazis, who scribe the writing of Quran, Know the time.
Neither the yogi nor any one else knows the lunar day, week day season and the month.
The Creator who creates the world, He Himself Knows (the time).
How to express, how to praise, how to describe and how to know Thee, O Lord?
Nanak! All describe Thy discourse and each is wiser then the other.
Great is the Master and great His Name and what he does, comes to pass.
Nanak! if someone deems himself potent to do, He shall not look adorned on his arrival in the world hereafter.
There are nether worlds beyond the nether worlds and lacs of skies over skies.
The scriptures say one thing: searching for God's limits and bounds, (without success) people have grown weary.
The Semitic scriptures say that there are eighteen thousand worlds, but in reality there is only one essence; that the Lord is limitless.
If there be any account of His creation, then man would finish while writing.
O Nanak! Call Him great. He Himself knows His Own-self.
The praisers praise the Lord, but they obtain not this understanding
that they may know His greatness; as the steams and the rivers falling into the ocean understand not its extent.
Wealthy Kings and emperors with oceans and mountains of property and wealth
equal not this ant who forgets not the true Lord.
There is no limit to the Lord's praises and to those who describe.
Limitless are His workings and limitless His givings.
There is no limit to watching and hearing His virtues.
What is Lord's motive? It's limit is not known.
The limit of His created creation is not discerned.
The bound of His this and yonder end is not known.
Good many bewail for knowing His bounds
but His limits are not found.
This limit none can know.
The more we describe, the more obscure He becomes.
Great is the Lord and high his seat.
His Name is the higher than the high.
If any one be as great and high as He is
then alone he would know that Lofty Being.
How great He is, only He Himself knows.
O Nanak! the compassionate Lord by His grace bestows gifts.
Good many are His bounties, these cannot be recorded.
He is the great Giver and has not even an iota of avarice.
The multitudes of warriors beg from the Infinite Lord.
Good many beyond reckoning, ponder over Him.
Many pine away to extinction in wickedness.
Some continually take gifts and yet deny them.
Many foolish devourers continue devouring.
Good many endure distress hunger and perpetual chastisement.
Even these are Thine gifts, O Bestower!
Liberation from bondage is effected by God's will.
No one else has any say in it.
If any fool dare intervene
he shall know how many lashes he receives on his face.
The Lord Himself knows everything and Himself gives.
Again few are those who acknowledge God's gifts.
Anyone whom the Lord grants wisdom to praise and eulogize Him,
O Nanak! he is the (spiritual) king of kings.
Priceless are Thine merits, O Lord! and priceless Thy dealings.
Priceless are Thine dealers and priceless Thy treasures.
Priceless are they who come to Thee and priceless they who purchase and fetch goods from Thee.
Priceless is Thy affection and priceless the absorption in Thee.
Priceless is Thy Divine law and priceless Thy Court.
Priceless are Thy scales and priceless Thine weights.
Priceless are Thine gifts and priceless Thy mark of approval.
Priceless are Thy benevolence and priceless Thy order.
Beyond price and invaluable, the Lord cannot be expressed.
By continually speaking of Thee, I remain absorbed in Thy love.
The reciters of the Vedas and the Puranas Proclaim Thee.
The literate repeat Thy Name and deliver discourses apropos Thee.
Brahmas speak of Thee and Indras speak of Thee as well.
The milk-maids and Krishna speak of Thee.
The Shiva speak of Thee and the miracle-mongers speak of Thee as well.
All the Buddhas, created by Thee, proclaim Thee.
The demons proclaim Thee and the gods proclaim Thee.
The demi-gods the men, the silent persons and the servants speak of Thee.
Good many describe Thee and attempt to describe Thee.
Many have repeatedly described Thee and arising and getting ready have departed.
Were Thou to create as many more as already created,
even then they can not describe a few virtues of Thine.
The Lord becomes so great as great He pleases.
O Nanak! Only the True Lord Himself knows His greatness.
If some prater says that he can describe God
then write him down as the most foolish of the foolish.
Which is that gate and mansion, sitting where-in Thou takest care of all, O Lord!
Countless musical instruments of various types resound there and too may are the musicians.
Good many measures with their consorts and good many minstrels hymn Thee.
The wind, the water and fire sing Thee and the Righteous Justice sings Thine praises at Thy door.
Chitra Gupat (the recording angels) who know how to write and on the basis of whose scribed writ the Righteous Judge adjudicates, sing Thee.
Shiva, Brahma and goddess, ever beautiful, as adorned by Thee, sing Thee.
Indra, seated on his throne with the deities at Thy gate, sings Thee.
In their meditative mood the perfect persons sing of Thee and the saints on their contemplation sing as well as.
The celibates, the contented, sing Thine praises and the dauntless warriors admire Thee.
The scholars, the readers of the Vedas of all the ages, together with seven supreme sages, exalt Thee.
The captivating She-seraphs who beguile the heart in paradise, this world and the nether-regions, sing Thee.
The fourteen invaluable objects created by Thee, with sixty-eight places of pilgrimage, hymn Thee.
The supremely mighty warriors and Divine heroes sing Thee and four sources of creation magnify Thee.
The continents, worlds and solar systems, created and installed by Thy hand, chant Thine glories.
Thy saints who are pleasing to Thee and are steeped in Name (the home of Nectar), they alone eulogise Thee.
Many others, whom I cannot recollect within my mind, sing Thee. How can Nanak think of them?
That and that Lord is ever true His is true and true is His Name.
He, who created the creation is and shall also be. He shall not depart when the creation shall depart (disappear).
God, who fashioned the world, has by diverse contrivances created the creation of various colours and Kinds.
Having created the creation, He as it pleases His Honour, beholds His handiwork.
Whatever pleases Him, He does that. No one can issue an order to Him.
He is the King, the Emperor of the Kings, Nanak remains subject to His will.
Make contentment thy ear-rings, modesty thy begging bowl and wellect and the Lord's meditation thy ashes.
Let thought of death be thy patched coat, chastity like that of virgin's body, thy life's department and faith in God thy staff.
Make the brother hood with all, the highest sect of yogic order and deem the conquering of self the conquest of the world.
Obeisance, my obeisance is unto that Lord.
He is primal, pure, sans beginning, indestructible and of the same one vesture all the ages through.
Make Divine Knowledge thy food and mercy thy steward and listen to the Divine music that beats in every heart.
He Himself is supreme Lord who has snaffled all. Riches and miracles are extraneous relishes not liked by saints.
Union and separation both regulate the world's business and by destiny man obtains his share.
Obeisance, my obeisance is unto that Lord.
He is primal, pure sans beginning, indestructible and of the same one vesture through all the ages.
The unique Mother (Master) formulating a plan of propagation installed three approved disciples.
One the world's creator (Brahma), one steward who gives sustenance (Vishnu) and one who has the disposition of destroying (Shiva).
As it pleases Him and as is His order, He makes them walk.
He beholds them but they see Him not. This is the greatest wonder.
Obeisance my obeisance is unto the Lord.
He is primal, pure, sans beginning, indestructible and of the same one vesture all the ages through.
Lord's seat and store houses are in all the worlds.
Whatever was put into them, was put but once for all.
Having created the creation the creator is beholding it.
O Nanak! true is the work of the True Lord.
obeisance, my obeisance is unto that Lord.
He is primal, pure, sans beginning, indestructible and of the same one vesture all the ages through.
From one tongue let my tongues become a lakh and the hundred thousand become twenty lakhs.
With each tongue lakhs over lakhs times, I would repeat the Name of the world's Lord.
In this way of the Bridegroom, there are ladders, by ascending whose steps, I would become one with Him.
By hearing celestial things even worms (the vile) wish to emulate.
O Nanak! God is obtained by His grace and false is the boasting of the false.
I have no power to speak and no power to remain silent.
I have no power to beg and no power to give.
I have no strength to live and no strength to die.
I have no strength to acquire empire and wealth, which stir up a commotion in the mind.
I have no power to gain understanding of Divine Knowledge and Lord's meditation.
I have no power to find the way to escape from the world.
He, in whose hand the power is, exercises and beholds it.
O Nanak! By one's own strength, none can be good or bad.
God created nights, seasons, lunar days, week days,
wind, water, fire and nether lands.
In the midst of these He established the earth as a home for the Lord's meditation.
There-in He placed beings of various types and colours.
Various and endless are their names.
They are judged according to their deeds and actions.
The Lord Himself is true and true His Court.
There the accepted saints look graceful
and they come to bear the mark of the grace of the merciful Master.
The bad and the good shall, there, be assayed.
O Nanak! on arrival at that place this shall be seen.
This aforesaid is the moral duty of the realm of righteousness.
Now I describe the doings of the realm of knowledge.
Good many are winds, waters, fires and good many Krishanas and Shivas.
There are many Barhmas, who are fashioning forms, and many beauties, colours and raiments.
Numberless are the earths and the mountains for doing virtuous deeds and numberless over numberless Dhrus, the instruction receivers.
Numberless are Indras, the moons the suns, numberless universes and numberless countries.
Innumerable there are proficients, Gautamas, great yogis and innumerable over innumerable the forms of goddesses.
How many deities, demons and silent sages and how many over many oceans and jewels.
How many the mines of production, languages and many the dynasties of kings (or masters of men).
Countless are the men of Divine knowledge and countless the servants of God. O Nanak! there is no limit to His bounds.
In the domain of knowledge Divine deliberation is greatly resplendent.
Celestial strain resounds there from whom myriads of amusements and joys proceed.
Beauty is the language of the realm of spiritual effort.
There, an extremely incomparable make, is made.
The proceedings of that place can not be described.
If any one endeavors to describe, he shall afterwards repent.
There inner consciousness, intellect, soul and understand are moulded afresh.
There the genius of the pious persons and men of miracles is moulded a new.
There is spiritual force in the language (of the man) of the realm of grace.
(Except those mentioned below) no one else resides in that domain.
The very powerful warriors and heroes dwell there.
Within them the might of the all pervading Lord remains fully filled.
They, who are fully sewn in the Lord's admiration, abide there.
Their beauty cannot be narrated.
They, die not and nor are they hood-winked,
in whose hearts God abides.
The saints of various worlds dwell there.
They make merry, That True Lord is in their hearts.
In the realm of Truth abides the Formless Lord.
God beholds the creation which He has created and renders them happy when He casts upon the beings His merciful glance.
In that realm there are continents, worlds and solar systems.
if some one tries to describe them, he should know that there are no limits or bounds of them.
There are universes upon universes and creations over creations.
As is the Master's mandate, so are their functions.
The Lord beholds His creation and feels happy by contemplating over it.
O Nanak! to describe the realm of truth is hard like iron.
Make continence thy furnace, patience thy goldsmith,
understanding thy anvil, Divine knowledge thy tools,
God's fear Thine bellows, practising of penance thy fire,
and love of Lord thy pot, where-in filter the Nectar of God's Name.
Thus in the true mint the Divine word is fashioned.
This is the daily routine of those on whom God casts His gracious glance.
O Nanak! the Merciful Master, with his kind look, makes them happy.
Shalok (Last sermon)
Air is the Guru, water the Father, earth the great Mother,
and day and night the two female and male nurses, in whose lap the entire world plays.
The merits and demerits shall be read in the presence of Righteous Judge.
According to their respective deeds, some shall be near and some distant from the Lord.
Who have pondered on His name, and have departed after putting in toil;
O Nanak! their faces shall be bright and many shall be emancipated along with them.
Sodar Aasa Measure First Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Which is Your gate and which the mansion, sitting where-in (Thou) takest care of all,(O Lord)!
Countless are Your musical instruments of various types which resound there and various are musicians there.
Good many are Your measures with their consorts and good many Your minstrels hymn Thee.
Sing Thee wind, water and fire; and the Righteous Justice sings (Thine) praises at (Thy) door.
Chitra Gupta (the recording angles), who know to write and on the basis of whose scribed writ, the Righteous Judge adjudicates, hymn Thee.
Shiva, Brahma, and goddess, ever beautiful as adorned by Thee, sing Thee.
Indra, seated in his throne, with the deities at Thy gate, sings Thee.
In their meditative mood the perfect persons sing of Thee and the saints in their contemplation sins Thee as well.
The continents, the true and the patients sing Thine praises and the dauntless warriors, admire Thee.
The scholars, the readers of the Vedas of all the ages, together with the seven supreme sages, exalt Thee.
The captivating she-seraphs, who beguile the heat in paradise, this world and the nether regions sing Thee.
The (fourteen) invaluable objects, created by Thee with sixty-eight places of pilgrimage, hymn (Thee.)
The supremely mighty warriors and Divine heroes sing Thee and the four sources of creation magnify Thee.
The continents the worlds and solar, system, created Thine glories.
They also eulogise Thee, who are Thy saints and are pleasing to Thee and are steeped (in Name) and thy bliss impairing love.
Many others whom I cannot recollect within my mind, sing Thee. How can Nanak think of them.
That and that Lord is ever True. He is True, and True is His Name.
He, who created the creation is and shall also be. He shall not depart when the creation shall depart (disappear).
(God), who fashioned the world, has by divers contrivances created the creation of various colors and kinds.
Having created the creation, He, as it pleases His Honour, beholds His handiwork.
Whatever pleases Him He does that. (To Him) then no one can issue an order.
He is the king the Emperor of the kings Nanak remains subjects to (His) will.
Asa Measure, First Guru.
By hearing every one calls Thee great (O Lord!),
But One, who has seen Thee Knows, how great Thou art.
None can appraise and narrate (Thee).
Thine describers remain absorbed in Thee.
O My great Master of unfathomable depth, (Thou art) an ocean of excellences.
None knows, how much and how great, Thy expanse is. Pause.
All the contemplatives have met and practised contemplation.
All the appraisers, having met together, have appraises (Thy) worth.
The theologians, the visualisers and they, who are the preachers of preachers, (have described Thee.)
They cannot tell even an iota of Thy greatness.
All truths, all austerities all goodness
and the magnificences of the men of occult powers,
without Thee none has ever attained such power.
With Thy grace they are procured No one can obstruct and stop (their flow).
What can the helpless creatures do?
Thine treasure are brimful with Thy praises,
Why should he, whom. Thou givest, think of some other means?
O Nanak! the True one Himself is the decorator.
Asa Measure, First Guru.
By repeating thy Name, I live, by forgetting it I die.
Difficult to utter is the True Name.
If man feels hunger for the True Name,
that hunger shall consume his pains.
How can He be forgotten O my Mother?
True is the Lord and true His Name, O my Mother? Pause.
Recounting the greatness of the True name,
Men have grown weary but they have not been able to appraise even a jot of it.
If all men meet and glorify Thee,
Thou would neither grow greater nor lesser.
That Lord dies not, nor there is any mourning.
He continues to give; His provisions never run short.
This alone is His merit that none else is like Him.
There has been none, nor there shall be any.
As great as Thou art, O; Lord! so, great are Thine gift.
(Thine is the personality) who makest the say and the night (too).
Vile are they who forget their Master.
O Nanak! without God's Name, men are out caste wretches.
Gujri Measure, Fourth Guru.
O my Great Sat Guru, the accepted one of the Lord and the True Person, I make a supplication before Thee.
I, an insect and a worm, have sought Thy shelter, mercifully bestow on me the light of God's Name, O True Guru!
O My friend, the bright Guru! Illumine me with the Name of the Omnipresent Lord.
The Name revealed to me by Guru's instruction is the friend of my very life and God's praise is my life's vocation. Pause.
The greatest good fortune is of the people of God who have faith in the Lord Master and thirst for God.
By obtaining the Name of the Lord God they are satiated and by meeting the society of saints their virtues shine forth.
They who have not gained God, God's elixir and God's Name are unfortunate and are near (handed over to) the minister of death.
Fie on the life and accursed the hope of living of those who have not sought the society and protection of the Sat Guru.
The men of God, who have obtained the society of the True Guru, they have, on their fore-heads the pro-ordained writ.
Blest, blest is the saints congregation from where God's elixir is procured. By meeting God's own, O Nanak! manifest becomes Lord's Name.
Gujri Measure, Fifth Guru.
Why doest thou, O Mind! think of enterprises, when Revered God Himself is engaged in thy care?
In the rocks and stones He has created beings. Their sustenance He puts before them.
O My venerable Lord of mammon! He, who mixes with the society of saints, is saved.
By the grace of the Guru, (he) obtains the supreme state (as) the dry wood blooms forth. Pause.
Of mother, father, people, son, (and) wife no one is the support of another.
To every individual the Lord reaches sustenance, why fearest (thou), O My soul?
The flamingoes come having flown over hundreds of miles, their youngling they leave behind.
Who feeds them and who causes them to peck? (Hast thou ever) thought of it in thy mind?
All the nine treasure and the eighteen supernatural powers, the Lord holds on the palm of His hand.
Slave Nanak is devoted, dedicated and ever a sacrifice (unto Thee, O Lord!) To Thy vastness there is no limit or bound.
Asa Measure, Fourth Guru. That Lord.
There is but one God, by the true Guru's grace He is obtained.
That Lord is pure, Lord God is sans stain, God is unapproachable unintelligible and unrivalled.
All meditate, all meditate on Thee, O Reverend God, the True Creator!
All the creatures are Thine, Thou art the Bountiful to the living beings.
O ye saints! meditate on God, the Dispeller of all the distresses.
God Himself is the Master and Himself the servant, How insignificant the man is, O Nanak!1
Thou, O venerable and unique Lord God! art uniterruptedly contained in all the hearts and every thing.
Some are the givers and some the mumpers. All these are Thine worderous frolics.
Thou Thyself art the Giver and Thyself the Enjoyer. Beside Thee I know of none other.
Thou art the infinite and limitless supreme Lord, What excellences of Thine should I narrate and recount?
Serf Nanak is a sacrifice unto those who serve, who serve Thee, O sire Lord!
Who deliberate and ponder over Thee, O Sire Lord! those persons abide in peace in this world.
Emancipated and liberated are they who remember Thee, O Sire God, Their death's noose is cut.
They who meditate on the Fearless, the Fearless Lord; their fear is all shaken off.
They who have served, they who have served my Sire God; they are absorbed in the personality of Lord God.
Blest are they, blest are they, who have meditated on Sire God. Serf Nanak is devoted unto then.
Infinite and innumerable treasures of Thine meditation, Thine meditation, ever remain brimful.
In many and various ways, the numberless saint of Thine, saints of Thine, O God! praise Thee.
Good many and servant perform Thy, (O Sire) Thy worship, O Endless God! They practise penances and repeat Thy Name.
Many and various men of Thine read many Simirtis and Shashtras. They accomplish rituals and perform six religious rites.
Sublime are those saints, thou saints, O Serf Nanak! who are pleasing to my auspicious Master.
Thou are the primal Being, the most excellent Creator. None else is as great as Thee.
From age to age Thou art one and the same, aye and ever, and Thou art identically the same. Such an ever stable Creator Thou art.
Whatever Thou Thyself likest, that comes to pass. What Thyself Thou actest, that gets accomplished.
Thou Thyself created the whole universe and having fashioned Thou Thyself shall destroy it all.
Slave Nanak sings the praises of the Sire Creator, who is the knower of one and all.
Asa Measure, Fourth Guru.
O God! Thou art the true creator, my Master,
That alone happens what pleaseth Thee. I receive that what Thou givest me. Pause.
All are thine and all meditate on Thee.
He, unto whom Thou showest mercy, obtains the jewel of Thy Name.
The pious persons obtain the Name and the self-willed lose it.
Thou Thyself separatest the mortals and Thyself unitest them.
Thou art the river and all are with in Thee.
Beside Thee, there is no one else.
All the sentient-beings are Thine play things
The separated meet, but it is through good luck that the union of the separated is accomplished.
The man, whom thou causeth to understand, understands Thee,
and he ever utters are repeats Thine praises.
He, who has served Thee, has obtained peace.
He easily gets absorbed in Thy Name.2
Thou Thyself are thy Maker. It is by Thy doing that everything comes to pass.
Beside Thee, there is no other second.
Thou beholdest and understandest the created creation of Thine.
Through the Guru, O slave Nanak! God is revealed.
Asa Measure, First Guru.
Man has obtained an abode in that world-pool, whose water that Lord has made hot as fire.
In the mire of worldly love, his feet move on not. I have seen him drowning there-in.
O foolish man! why rememberest thou not the unique Lord in thy mind.
By forgetting God, thy virtues, O man! shall wither away. Pause.
I am not a continent or a true man nor a scholar, Foolish and ignorant, I am born in this world.
Pray Nanak! I have sought the sanctuary of those who forget Thee not,(O Lord!).
Asa Measure, Fifth Guru.
This human body has come to thy hand.
This is thy chance to meet the Lord of the world.
Other works are of no avail to thee.
Joining the society of saints, contemplate over the Name alone.
Make effort for crossing the dreadful world-ocean.
In the love of worldliness, the human life is passing in vain. Pause.
I have not practised meditation, arduous toil, self-restraint and faith.
I have not served the Saint and have not recognised God, the King.
Groveling are mine actions, says Nanak.
Preserve the honour of thine shelter-seeker, (O my Master!)
Song of praise. Gouri Deepeki Measure, First Guru.
There is but one God. By the true Guru's grace He is obtained.
The house in which the creator is meditated upon and his praises are repeated,
in that house sing the songs of praise and remember the Maker.
Do thou sing the songs of praise of my Fearless Lord?
I am a sacrifice unto the song of joy by which eternal solace is procured. Pause.
Ever and ever, the Lord watches over His beings and the Giver is beholding one and all.
No price can put on thine gifts. How can, then, that Giver's (Thy) estimation be had?
The year and the day of wedding (recorded) is fixed. Meet together my mates and pour oil at the door.
Giver me your blessings, O Friends! that I may attain union with my Master.
This summon is sent to every house and such calls do come daily.
Meditate on the Summoner, O Nanak! That day is approaching near.
Asa Measure, First Guru.
There are six systems, six their teachers and six their doctrines.
But the Teacher of teachers is but one Lord, though he has various vestures.
O Father! follow the house (system) where-in the praises of the Creator are uttered.
In it rests thy greatness. Pause.
Second, minutes, hours, quarters of a day, lunar-days, weekdays, months,
And several seasons spring from the lone sun. So many forms originate from the Creator, O Nanak!
Dhanasri Measure, First Guru.
In the sky's salver the sun and the moon are lamps and the stars with their orbs are the studded pearls.
The fragrance of sandal wood makes Thy incense, wind Thy fan and all the vegetation Thine flowers, O Luminous Lord!
What a beautiful "worship with lamps" is being performed? This is Thine "Present adoration" O the Destroyer of dread!
The celestial strain is the sounding of temple drums. Pause.
Thousands are Thine eyes, yet Thou hast no eye. Thousands are Thine forms, yet Thou hast not even one.
Thousands are Thine pure feet, even then Thou hast not one foot. Thousands are Thine noses and yet Thou art without a nose. I am bewitched by these plays or Thine.
Amongst all there is light and that light (art Thou).
By His light, the light shines within all the souls.
By the Guru's teaching the Divine light becomes manifest.
Whatever pleases Him, that is (His) real worship.
My soul is bewitched of the honey of the lotus feet of God, and night and day I am athirst for them.
Give piedcuckoo Nanak, the water of Thine mercy, (O God!) so that he may have an abode in Thy Name.
Gauri Purbi Measure, Fourth Guru.
With lust and wrath, (the body) village is full to the brim. By meeting the saint Guru, I have broken (both) into pieces.
By virtue of the pre-ordained writ, I have obtained the Guru and entered the realm of Lord's love.
Make obeisance with clasped hands unto the Saint (Guru). It is a greatly meritorious act.
Make a prostrate salutation, this is a great virtue indeed. Pause.
The mammon-worshippers know the relish of God's elixir, within them is the thorn of pride.
The more they walk away (from God) the more it pricks and more the pain they suffer and they bear on their heads the mace of death's myrmidon.
God's men are absorbed in Lord God's Name and they have broken away the pangs and fear of birth and death.
They have obtained the imperishable supreme Lord God and great honour is theirs in the various regions and universes.
I am poor and humble but I am Thine, O Lord God! Save me, save me, O Thou greatest, of the great.
The Name is slave Nanak's sustenance and support and by God's Name he enjoys peace.
Gauri Purbi Measure, Fifth Guru.
I make supplication, listen to me, O my Friend! This is the high time to serve the saints.
Over here, earn the profit of God's Name and depart, here-after, thou shalt have adorned, abode.
By day and night, the life goes on decreasing.
By meeting the Guru, O Man! set aright thine affairs. Pause.
This world is engrossed in wickedness and scepticism. God's divine alone, is saved.
He, whom God awakens to drink this essence of His Name, comes to know the discourse of the ineffable Lord.
Purchase only that commodity for which thou hast come. Through Guru's grace God shall dwell within thy heart.
In the own home thou shalt obtain the Lord's presence in comfort and ease and thou shalt not undergo the round again.
O Lord! the searcher of hearts and the designer of chances, fulfill my heart's yearning.
Servant Nanak asks for this happiness ; Make me the dust of the feet of Thine Saints, (O Lord!)4
There is but one God. By the true Guru's grace He is obtained.
Sri Measures, First Guru.
Shall I have palaces, built of rubies, set with gems and plastered with musk saffron,
and saw dust of eagle and sandal wood, by which yearning ambition may arise in the mind?
No, lest by seeing them, I may go astray, forget Thee, O God! and Thy Name may not enter my heart.
Without God my soul is scorched and burnt down.
I am convinced after consulting my Guru that there in no other place (except God). Pause.
Though the floor be a mosaic of diamonds and rubies, the couch be enchased with gems,
and a fascinating houri with emerald bedecked face invites me to the couch with love and capturing gestures.
May it not be that on beholding then I may go amiss, forget Thee and remember not Thy Name.
Becoming a man of occult powers, were I to work miracles and command and summon wealth,
were I to become non-apparent and apparent at will, and thereby people may have regard for me.
May it not be that a beholding them I may go amiss, forget Thee and remember not Thy Name.
Were I to become an emperor, raise a huge army, set my foot on the throne,
and seated on the throne, were I to issue commands and collect revenue; O Nanak! all this is liable to pass away like a puff of wind.
May it not be that on beholding them I may go amiss, forget Thee and remember not Thy Name.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Were my age to be millions over millions of years; were I to have air as my drink and food; and were I to live in so narrow a place of a cave,
where I may never see both the moon and the sun and where I would never have sleep even in dream.
Even so I cannot appraise thy worth. How great shall I call thy Name?
The True Formless Lord's is in His own place.
As I have often heard, I narrate the tale of Thine excellences,(O Lord!) if it pleases Thee, induce Thy craving in me. Pause.
Were I to be slashed and cut into pieces, over and over again, and put in a quern, and ground.
Were I to be burnt with fire and mingled with ashes;
Even so I would not be able to assess Thy value. How great should I call Thy Name?
Becoming a bird, were I to hover and soar through hundreds of heavens,
and were I to vanish from every one's gaze and neither drink not eat anything.5
Even so I cannot appraise thy worth. How great shall I call Thy Name?
Nanak were I to have hundreds of thousands of mounds of paper; and were I to embrace love for the Lord by reading and perusing those writings;
were ink never to fail me; were my pen to move with the velocity of wind in writing.
Even so I cannot appraise thy worth. How great shall I call Thy Name?
Sri Rag, First Guru.
In account the man speaks the words, in accounts he partakes of the food.
In account he walks along the way, In account he hearts and sees.
In account he draws the breath. Why should I go to ask the literate?
O Father! deceitful is the splendor of worldly object.
The (spiritually) blind man has forgotten God's Name. He neither abides in peace in this world nor in the next. Pause.
Life and death are for everything that is born. Death devours everything here.
Where the (Righteous Judge) sits and explains the account, thither no one goes with the man.
The weepers, one and all, tie bundles of straw.
All say that the Lord is the greatest of the great. None calls Him less.
No one has ascertained His worth. He becomes not great just by saying.
Thou alone art the True Lord of mine and other being of numberless worlds.
Those who are of low caste among the lowly, rather the lowest of the low;
Nanak seeks the company of those. Why should he rival the lofty?
Where the poor are looked after, there does rain the look of Thy grace, O Lord!
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Avarice is a dog, falsehood the sweeper and cheating the eating of a carrion.
Slandering others, solely amounts to putting other's filth in ones own mouth and fire of wrath is pariah.
In such sins, sweet and saline savour, and self-praise, I am engrossed, These are my doings, O my Creator.
O Brother! utter the words which may bring honour.
Good are they who are styled good in Lord's Court. The devilish sit and bewail. Pause.
The pleasure of gold, pleasure of silvers and damsels, pleasure of fragrance of sandal,
pleasure of horses, pleasure of common cushion with a houri and a palace, pleasure of sweets and pleasure of meats,
So many are the relishes of the human body. How can then God's Name secure an abode within the heart?
The words by speaking which honour is obtained that utterance of the worlds becomes acceptable.
By uttering harsh words man come to grief. Hearken, O my foolish ignorant soul!
They, who are pleasing to Him, are good, what else is to be said or described?
Wisdom honour and wealth in the lap of those in whose mind God remains permeated.
What praise of theirs can one chime? What more decoration they need?
Nanak, they who are bereft of God's gracious glance cherish not fondness charity and the Name.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
The Giver has given man intoxicating pill of falsehood.
Having been intoxicated therewith he has forgotten death and makes merry for four days.
The mortals, who are the nonusers of intoxicants, obtain truthfulness to keep them in God's Court.
O Nanak! know the True Lord alone as True.
By serving whom the mortal attains peace and goes to Thine Court with honour O Lord! Pause.
The wine of truth is prepared without molasses and in that there is the True Name.6
I am a sacrifice unto all those who hear and repeat (the True Name).
Only then the man is deemed to be intoxicated when he obtains room in God's mansion.
Take bath in the water of virtues and apply the perfume of sandal of righteousness to the body,
then shall thy face become bright. This is the gift of a hundred thousand gifts.
Tell thine woes to Him, with whom rest all the weals.
Why should we in our mind grow oblivious of Him who is the owner of our soul and life.
Without Him all vestures and viand are impure.
All other things are false. What pleases Thee, (O Lord!) becomes acceptable.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Burnt wordly love and pound it into ink and turn thy intelligence into superior paper.
Make Lord's love thy pen, mind the scribe and write God's deliberation after consulting the Guru.
Pen down the praises of God's Name and continuously write that He has no end and limit.
O Brother! learn how to write this account,
so that where an account is called for, there thou mayest have a true Mark. Pause.
The faces of those, in whose hearts is the True Name, are anointed with frontal marks there,
where honours everlasting bliss and eternal raptures are bestowed.
If man becomes the recipient of God's grace, then alone does he obtain such honours and not by idle words.
Some come, some get up and depart. They give themselves high name.
Some are beggar born and some hold huge courts.
By going into the beyond man shall realise that without the Name he is of no account.
I am greatly afraid of Thine awe, (O Lord!) and being distracted and bothered my body is wasting away.
They, who go by the names of kings and lords are beheld being reduced to dust.
Nanak, when the mortal arises and depart, all the false affections are sundered.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
To believe in God's Name is all sweet relish, to hear it is saltish,
to utter it with the mouth is sweet savoury and to hymn God's Name I have made my spices.
The love of the unique Lord is the thirty-six sorts of flavoury Nectars (victuals). This is the way of those on whom He casts His gracious glance.
O Brother! ruinous is the happiness of other viand,
by eating which the body is crushed and sin enters the mind. Pause.
Mind being imbued (with Lord's love) is as red, verity and charity as white dress for me.
To erase blackness of sin is to wear blue clothes and to meditate (on Lord's) feet is my robe of honour.
Contentment is my waist-band and Thy Name, (O Lord,!) my wealth and youth.
O Brother! the happiness of other raiments is ruinous.
By wearing which the body is ground and wickedness takes possession of the soul. Pause.
To know Thy way, (O Lord)! is as horse, saddle and gold crupper for me.
To run after virtues is as quiver arrow, bow spear and sword-belt for me.
To be honourably distinguished are my bands and lances and Thy favour is my caste (lineage).
O Brother! the glee of other rides is ruinous.
By which mountings the body is pained and sin enters the mind. Pause.
The bliss of the Name is as houses and mansions and Thy favouring glance, (O Lord!) is as family for me.7
That is the command which pleases Thee. To say more is greatly beyond reach.
Nanak, the True King takes decision without seeking other's counsel.
O Brother! the pleasure of other rests is pernicious.
By such sleeps the body is crushed and the evil deeds over ride the soul. Pause.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
The man within whose heart is the light of Divine comprehension has saffron like auspicious body, gem like invaluable tongue and fragrance of eagle-wood like pure body breath.
On his face He bears the sacred mark of having taken bath at sixty-eight places of pilgrimage.
By that understanding he sings the praises of the True Name, the treasure of excellences.
O Brother! another intelligence is altogether alien (to the spiritual realm).
If falsehood be practised a hundred times it still continues to have false force. Pause.
If man be adored and called a spiritual guide and be counted amongst men of occult powers,
He may call himself by high name and the entire world may welcome him,
But if he becomes not acceptable at the Spouse's Court, then all the worship will make him miserable.
None can unseat then whom the True Guru has installed.
Within then is the Name treasure and through the Name they are renowned.
They worship God's Name and believe in nothing but the Name. Ever imperishable is that True Lord.
What would then happen to the soul when the body is mingled with dust.
All the cleavernesses of man get burnt (come to an end) and he departs weeping.
Nanak, if man forgets God's Name what treatment shall be meted out to him on his arrival at God's Court.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
The virtuous wife repeats the virtues (of Her Spouse) and the virtueless one repents.
O Woman if thou desirest thy Bridegroom then the consort can not be met through falsehood.
Thy Beloved is far off. Thou cannot meet Him. There is no boat nor a raft (to ferry thee across).
My Lord is perfect. His throne is immovable.
If the Exalted Guru makes the mortal perfect he procures the immeasurable True Lord. Pause.
Lord God's palace is beautiful. It is studded with flawless diamonds,
gems, rubies and pearls. It is surrounded by a golden fort and is the home of Nectar.
How shall I scale the fortress without a ladder? By meditation on God, through the Guru, I shall behold that.
(To have access to God's Name) the Guru is the ladder, the Guru the boat and the Guru the raft.
The Guru is (my) ship to cross sin's lake and world's ocean and the Guru is (my) place of pilgrimage and sacred stream.
If it pleases Him, I shall go to bathe in the true tank and become pure.
Perfect of the perfect the Lord is called. He reposes on the perfect throne.
He Looks Beautiful on His Perfect seat and fulfils the hopes of the hopeless.
Nanak, if man obtains the Perfect Master, how can his virtues decrease?
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Come My sisters and dear comrades! clasp me in thine embrace.
Meeting together let us tell the tales of our Omnipotent Spouse.
In the true Lord are all merits, in us all demerits.
O My Creator! all are in Thy power.
I contemplate over the One Name, when thou art mine, O Lord! what more do I require then. Pause.
Go and ask the happy wives by what merits did they enjoy their Spouse
(They say:) with the decorations of Divine knowledge, contentment and sweet discourses.
If she hearkens to the Guru's instructions, it is then, that the Joyous Beloved meets.
How many are thine omnipotences and how great Thine gifts, (O Master?)
Innumerable are thy creatures who utter (Thine) praises day and night.
Innumerable are Thine forms and colours and numberless Thine castes, high and low.
By meeting the True Guru truth is produced and becoming truthful man is absorbed in the True Lord.
When by the Guru's teachings the mortal is filled with Divine fear he obtains understanding and honour welcome him.
O Nanak! the True King Himself then blends man with His ownself.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
It turned out well that I was saved and my pride was stilled in my heart.
When I reposed confidence in the True Guru (my) enemies then began to perform (my) service.
(By the grace of) the Care-free True Lord I have renounced the useless head-ache.
Fear depart by meeting the True One, O Man!
Without God's fear and blending with His Name through the Guru, how can the mortal become fearless? Pause.
How for can His exposition be given? There is no end the God's descriptions.
There are good many mumpers, He alone is the Giver.
Solace accrues when He, who is the owner of soul and life, abides in (man's) mind.
This world is like a drama staged in a dream, in a moment this play ends.
Some attain to Master union and others in separation.
Whatever pleases Him, that comes to pass. Nothing else can be done.
Through the Guru, purchase the Divine commodity. The True merchandise is bought with the true Capital.
Hail! unto those, who, through the Perfect Guru, have purchased the True Name.
O Nanak! (the Lord,) who stocks real merchandise, shall recongnise their commodity.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
As a metal ultimately merges in metal, so does a praise-chanter gets absorbed in the Praise -worthy Lord.
Like the poppy flower he is dyed deep red in the colour of truthfulness.
The content, who meditate on God with single love, meet the True One.
O Brother! become the dust of the feet of saintly persons.
Guru, the wealth of salvation giver, elysian cow, is obtained in the society of saints. Pause.
The mansion of God the destroyer of spiritual ignorance is on the beauteous raised platform.
Through good deeds human body is obtained and through Divine love the door of Lord home and palace.
It is through the meditation of the Omnipresent Soul that the holy instruct their mind.
By doing three pronged deed hope and anxiety are produced.
How can one be released from the bondage of three qualities without the Guru? it is by acquiring Divine knowledge that comfort ensues.
By casting His gracious glance, God washes off man's filth and in his very home (body) he comes to realise Lord's presence.
Without the Guru pollution is not removed and without God how can there be home coming?
Having renounced other hopes, we ought to meditate on the Name alone.
O Nanak! I am ever a sacrifice (unto the Guru) who Himself beholds and causes others to behold (God).
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Accursed is the life of the discarded bride, as she is deluded by another's love.
Like the wall containing calcareous matter, day and night, she continues crumbling (and finally) falls down.
Without the Name peace ensues not, without the Beloved grief does not depart.
O Bride! of what avail is thy adornment without thy Bridegroom?9
In mansion's door (this world) thou shalt obtain no shelter and being false thou shalt be miserable in the next world. Pause.
The True Lord Himself is all wise and forgets not. He is a great husbandman.
He first prepares the mind ground and then gives (sows) the seed of the True Name.
From the Name of One Lord the nine treasure are produced and the mortal comes to bear the mark of His grace.
What is the sense and life conduct of him. who understanding (withstanding), understands not the Guru.
The Blind man has forgotten the Name. A perverse person (walks) in pitch-darkness.
His coming and going ceases not and he is ruined in death and birth.
She buys and brings sandal, saffron redhead for the partings of her hair.
Moreover she applies to her body in great abundance the perfume of eagle and sandal wood and chews betel leaf mixed with camphor.
But If the bride is not pleasing to her Spouse then all her trappings are false.
Her enjoyments of all the pleasure are vain and all her decorations unwholesome.
Until she is pierced through with God's Name how can she look beautiful in Great God's Court?
Nanak, blessed is the fortunate wife, who bears love with (to) her Consort.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
When the soul departs from within, dreadful becomes the forlorn body.
The burning fire is extinguished and now no smoke of breath emerges.
The five (sense-organs) bewail painfully and pine away through worldly love.
O fool! preserve virtues and remember Pervading God.
Self-conceit and egoism are bewitching. Arrogance has defrauded all. Pause.
They, who have forgotten the Name, are attached with worldly pursuits,
are linked with another in love and they within whose heart is the fire of desire, putrefy to death.
They, whom the Guru protects are saved and others, are beguiled by deceitful worldly occupations.
The pious persons for ever restrain their desires and by becoming the recipients of His favour obtain the True Being.
Their profane affection dies, their worldly love goes and they cease their enmity and estrangement.
Their secular avocations come to an end and die down their pride, worldly attachments yearning for wealth and wrath.
By true service one meets the True Lord and obtains Guru's instruction.
That man gets immune of birth and death. He neither comes nor goes.
Nanak, he is prominent at God's door and goes to His Court clad with the robe of honour.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
The body is completely burnt to ashes and because of mammon's love the mind is rusted with wickedness.
Demerits, then turn into enemies and falsehood sounds the bugle (in glee).
Without the Name, man is knocked about (in transmigration). The love of duality has drowned multitudes of men.
O my soul! thou shalt swim across the world ocean by fixing attention on God's Name.
Those who through the Guru, have not understood God's Name are reborn after death and continue coming and going. Pause.
That body where in abides the True Name, is said to be pure.
(The Mortal), whose body is tinged with the fear of the True One and whose tongue relishes truthfulness,
is ecstasised by God's true glance, and faces not sin's heat, again.
From the True Lord, proceeded the air and from air became the water.
From the water God created the three worlds and in every heart He infused His light.
The Immaculate Lord becomes not impure, He, who is imbued with the Name, obtains honour.
God shows favour in (unto) him, whose soul is contented with truthfulness.0
(His body of) five elements, then get dyed in the fear of the True One and the True light shines within his mind.
Nanak, he forgets (forsakes) sins and the Guru saves his honour.
Sri Rag. First Guru.
Nanak the boat of truth ferries man across through the discerning wisdom of the Guru.
Of the multitudes of men full of pride, some come and some go.
Through mind's obstinacy the man of intellect is drowned and through the Guru the true man is saved.
Sans the Guru, how can man swim across and attain peace?
As it pleases Thee so do thou save me. I have no other second (to succour me, O Lord). Pause.
In front I behold the fire of death burning (the mortals) and just behind I see the green plumules.
Whence they are born, thence do they merge. The True Lord is fully filling every heart.
God Himself unites man in His union (and he then), sees the True mansion close-by.
With every breath I meditate in Thee, (O Lord) and never forget Thee.
The more the Master abides within my mind the more the Nectar I quaff through the Guru.
My soul and body are Thine and Thou art my Master. Rid me of ego and merge me in Thee.
He who created this universe did make the expanse of the three worlds.
Know that the good perceive the Divine light and the perverse fools remain in spiritual darkness.
He, who perceives God's light within every heart, comes to understand the essence of Guru's teaching.
Do applaud the pious persons who understand the Lord.
They meet and merge into the True Lord and in them become manifest the excellences of the True Being.
Nanak they feel contented with God's Name and their soul and body are near (at the disposal of) the Lord.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Hearken, O my darling, friendly soul! this is the time to meet (the Lord).
As long as there is youth and breath, so long give thy body (in Lord's service).
Without virtue it is of no avail, the body shall crumble into a heap of dust.
O my soul! earn some profit (before) thou goest home.
By Guru's grace praise the Name thus the fire of egotism is quenched. Pause.
(We) repeatedly hear and coin stories. (As also we) write, read and understand a huge load (of knowledge).
(Nevertheless) day and bight our desires increase and the ailment of vanity produces evil passions.
That Care-free Lord is unweighable and His real worth is known through Guru's instruction.
If man performs lakhs of deeds of wisdom and bears love and company with lakhs of people,
but he is not satiated without sant's society and undergoes suffering and sorrow without the Name.
O my soul! by understanding thy ownself and meditating on God, through the Guru, thou shall be released.
I have sold my body and soul to the Guru and have given my heart and head along with.
Seeking, under Guru's guidance I have seen Him, whom I did track and search in the three worlds.
Nanak the True Guru has united me in the union of that Lord who is ever with me.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
I have no anxiety regarding fear of death nor any hope (craving) for life.
Thou cherisheth all the beings (O Lord!) In account are the breathings and morseles of all.
Through the Guru Thou abidest within the heart and as Thou willest so dost Thou decide.
O my Soul! by meditating on the Omnipresent Lord the mind is propitiated.1
By Guru's instruction Divine knowledge is obtained and the fire raging within is extinguished. Pause.
Cast away thy doubt, meet the Guru and thou shalt know the condition of the inner-self.
Whilst alive annihilate thine evil inclinations for that House where thou hast to reach after death.
The fascinating celestial strain is obtained through the discerning wisdom imparted by the Guru.
Through Gurbani, that unbeaten melody is procured and there with egotism is annulled.
I am ever a sacrifice unto him who serves his True Guru.
He within whose mouth God's Name abides, is taken to God's Court and is dressed (with the robe of honour).
In the universe the union of sensitiveness and stupefaction wherever I see, I find God pervading there.
The body is bound down by three dispositions. Who-so-ever comes in this world he plays (subject to their hint).
The separatists part way with the Lord and are in anguish. Those self-willed obtain not union (with Him).
Becoming desire-free, if the mind abides in home and is dyed red in the fear of the True Lord,
it shall then enjoy the Supreme Nectar of Divine Knowledge and shall not feel hunger again.
Nanak, subdue this mind and meet the Lord, thus thou shalt suffer agony no more.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
This foolish and greedy mind is attached with and lured by greed.
Being materialist and of evil intellect, it drenches not in God's Name and continues coming and going.
If man meets the Saintly True Guru, then, does he find (God) the treasure of excellences.
O (my) mind! renounce self-worship and self-conceit.
Serve thou God-model Guru an ocean of piety, so that thou mayest obtain honour in His Court. Pause.
Meditate on God God's Name day and night and by Guru's grace deem God's Name thy treasure.
By meeting the society of saints thou shalt acquire Divine Knowledge and enjoy all comforts and God's elixir.
He, whom the True Guru has given the Name, ever serves Lord God day and night.
He, who practices falsehood is like a dog and burns in the fire of slandering the Guru.
He goes astray in doubt and suffers great agony. Death's myrmidon beats him to pulp.
An apostate procures not peace. One resigned to Guru's will is wonderfully joyous.
Here man is engrossed in false pursuits (but there) the writ of true actions is acceptable.
The Guru serves God, his intimate, and Guru's actions are the most exalted.
Nanak, he forgets not God's Name and he bears the mark of the True Lord's grace.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
To forget the Beloved, even for an instant, produces great affliction in the soul.
How can honour be acquired in god's Court, if He dwells not in mortal's mind?
By meeting the Guru, peace is obtained and the fire of desire is quenched in (by singing) Lord's praises.
O my Soul! day and night deliberate over the excellences of God.
What forget not God's Name even for a moment and an instant ; such persons are rare in this world. Pause.
When human light blends with the Supreme Light and the union of wisdom is effaced with the universal wisdom,
then mortal's killing-instinct and egotism depart and scepticism and sorrow afflict him not.
The Guru-ward, within whose mind abides the Lord, him the Guru unites with Lord's union.
If I surrender my body like a bride to the Master, the Enjoyer will enjoy me.
Make not love with him, who appears to be but a passing-show.
That Lord Consort, on His couch, enjoys the virtuous and chaste brides.2
By obtaining the water of God's Name, through the Guru, quench the four fires (of cruelty, wordly-love, anger and greed) and remain dead in life.
Thus the heart-lotus blossom be filled with Nectar and thou shalt be satiated.
Nanak make the True Guru thy friend, then going to His Court thou shalt obtain the True One.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Obtain Guru's instruction, O my dear! repeat God's Name and contemplate over Lord God.
Apply the touch-stone of Truthfulness to thy soul, and see if it weighs its full weight.
No one has found its worth. Invaluable is the value of the soul emerald.
O Brother! God, the jewel, resides in the Guru.
In the society of saints, the True Guru is obtained. Day and night praise God's Name, (O ; Man!). Pause.
By obtaining light from the Guru, acquire the true wealth and real merchandise.
As fire is extinguished by pouring water, similarly the desire becomes the slave of (is quenched by) God's slaves.
The courier of death shall touch thee not and like this thou shalt cross and causes others to cross the terrible life ocean.
The Guru's slaves like not untruth. With sincere love they are dyed in nothing but Truth.
The mammon-worshipper likes not Truthfulness. False is the foundation of the false.
Being tainted with Truth, one meets the Guru, The true persons are absorbed in the True Lord.
In the mind are emerald, rubies pearls, valuables and jewels of God's Name.
The True merchandise and wealth is the Name of the infinitely deep Lord, who permeates all the hearts.
Nanak were God, the Gem, to show favour, He is obtained through the Exalted Guru.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
The fire of doubt extinguishes not, even though man may wander in foreign lands and countries.
Accursed is the life and doomed the religious garb of him, whose heart's filth is not removed.
Except through the True Guru's instruction, there is no other way to perform Lord's devotional service.
O my soul! extinguish the fire through the Guru.
Abide by Guru's word within thy mind and still thy ego and desire. Pause.
The mind jewel is priceless, but it is through Lord's Name that it attains honour.
By Guru's grace, embrace love for God and by associating with the true congregation, obtain the Lord.
By erasing self-conceit man attains peace and like water merging with water, blends (with the Lord).
Those who have not contemplated over the Name of Lord God they are without merits and continue coming and going.
He who has not met the Divine True Guru bothers and suffers in the terrible life-ocean.
This soul jewel is priceless, in this way it is being lost in exchange for a shell.
Whom the True Guru joyfully meets, they are the perfectly wise persons.
By meeting the Guru, the terrible world-ocean is crossed and man's honour becomes acceptable in God's Court.
O Nanak! bright are the faces of those within whose mind the music of Gurbani is apparently struck.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
O traders! strike the bargain, and take care of (the True) merchandise.
Purchase such goods as may last with Thee.
In the next world the wise Merchant will take and preserve the genuine article.
O Brother! repeat God's Name by fixing thy attention.
Take and depart with the merchandise of God's praises. The Spouse shall view and be satisfied with it. Pause.3
Who have not the capital of righteousness, how shall they find peace?
By dealing in false trade, soul and body become false.
Like the deer ensnared is a snare, they come to great grief and ever bewail.
The counterfeit are not consigned to the divine treasury. They obtain not the sight of the great God.
The false one has no caste and honour. No one succeeds through falsehood.
The untrue mortal practises untruth and loses his honour in transmigration.
O Nanak! By Guru's Instruction and counsel instruct thy mind.
Those, who are imbued with the love of the Name of Pervading Lord, have no load of sin and no scepticism
Those, in whose heart God abides, are dauntless and by meditating on God, they earn a great gain.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Wealth, youth, and flowers are guests only for four days.
Like the leaves or water lily, they whither, fade (and finally) die away.
Enjoy Lord's love, O dear one! so long as thou hast buoyant fresh youth.
Few are thine days, thou hast grown weary and the body vesture has grown old. Pause.
My playful friend has gone to sleep in the graveyard.
I, double minded, too shall depart and weep with a feeble voice.
Within thine ears, O my fair coloured soul! why thou hearest not this fact?
Thou shalt go to thy in laws and cannot stay with thy parents for ever.
O Nanak, know that she, who is asleep in her parent's home, is burgled in broad day light.
She is departing after having lost her bundle of merits and has tied one of demerits.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Lord Himself is the Relisher, Himself the Relish, and Himself the Enjoyer.
He Himself is the Vesture (bride) and Himself the Couch and Bridegroom.
My Master is dyed with love and is fully pervading every where. Pause.
He Himself is the fisherman and the fish and Himself the water and the net.
He Himself is the metal ball of the net and Himself the bait within.
My maid! my Beloved is in every way playful.
He ever enjoys the virtuous wife. Behold my plight (away from Him.)
Prays Nanak, listen to my supplication. Thou art the tank and Thou the swan.
Thou art the lotus and Thou the water-lily. Thou Thyself art pleased on beholding (them).
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Make this body the field, good actions the seed, and irrigate it with the water of the Name of God, the holder of earth in his hands.
Make thy soul the cultivator, God will germinate in thy heat and thou shalt, thus, obtain the dignity of emancipation.
O Fool! why takest thou pride on wealth?
Father, sons, wife, mother and all other (relations) become not thy helpers in the end.
Weed out evil wickedness and sins. Leaving these and becoming single-minded, meditate (on the Lord).
When Lord's meditation, arduous service and control of evil passions become guides, then does the heart lotus bloom and honey trickles.
Amass (control) thy body residing place of twenty seven elements, and ever remember death in the three caves (stage) of life.
Behold the limitless Lord in ten directions and eighteen (loads of vegetation). Says Nanak, like this the One Master shall save thee.4
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Make pious deeds thy farm, Guru's Word do thou make thy seed and ever irrigate with the water of truth.
Become a husbandman and thy faith shall germinate. O fool! know thus, thy paradise and hell.
Deem not that the Spouse is obtained by mere words.
In the pride of wealth and the splendour of beauty, in this way thou hast lost thy life. Pause.
The sin of the body is the puddle and this soul the frog, which values not at all the lotus-flower.
Guru, the bumble -bee ever repeats the Divine sermons but how can man understand them, when (God) does not make him understand?
The preaching and listening of religious discourse is like the sough of wind for those, whose soul is tinctured with mammon.
Centering their attention on the Husband alone, those who meditate on Him; His grace descends on them and they become pleasing to His heart.
Even though thou keepest thirty (fasts) and takest with the five comrades (i.e. the five prayers) but beware, lest the one, who goes by the name of Satan should undo their merit.
Says, Nanak, thou hast to go the way (of death). What for hast thou amassed property and wealth?
Sri Rag, First Guru.
He is the Master who has make the world blossom and reverdured the universe.
Hall! unto the Creator who has kept in bondage the water and land.
Death, O Maulvi! death must come.
All the same abide in the fear of the Maker. Pause.
Then alone thou art a Mullah or then alone art a Qazi, if thou knowest the name of God.
Even though man be very learned none can stay here when his measured of life becomes full.
He is the Qazi who has renounced self-conceit and made the name of God alone his support.
That True Creator, is and shall also, be, was not born and shall not perish.
Thou recitest prayer five times a day and readest holy books ant the Quran.
Says Nanak, the grave calls thee and now thine food and drink have come to an end.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
I have a dog and two bitches with me.
Early in the morn, they ever bark at the wind.
Falsehood is my dagger and to eat by defrauding is carrion.
I live in the form of a hunts man, O Creator!
I follow not the counsel of my Spouse nor do I good deeds.
I appear deformed and terrible.
Thy Name alone saves the world.
This alone is my hope and this the mainstay. Pause.
With my mouth, I utter calumny day and night.
I am base and a wretch and spy other's house.
Lust and wrath, the pariahs, abide in my body.
I live in the form of huntsman, O Creator!
I am gentle in appearance, but my intent is to entrap others.
I am a cheat and cheat the country (world).
I am very clever and carry the great load of sin.
I live in the form of huntsman, O Creator!
I, a partaker of other's wealth, have not appreciated what Thou hast done for me.
What face shall, I a villainous thief show Thee, O Lord?
Nanak the lowly sayeth this thought.
I live in the form of huntsman, O Creator!
Sri Rag, First Guru.
There is the same inner conscious-ness amongst all the beings.
Without inner consciousness He has created none.5
As is the consciousness, so is their way.
He alone (call mortals) to account (and subject) to his order they come and go.
O mortals! why dost thou practise cleverness?
In taking back and giving God makes no delay. Pause.
The beings are Thine and Thou art their (Master).
What for art Thou then enraged with them, O Lord?
If Thou in rage be O Lord!
Still Thou art theirs and they are Thine.
We the foul-tongued spoil every thing by (our thoughtless) words.
Within Thy sight, Thou weighest their weight (worth).
Where the deeds are virtuous, there is the perfect understanding.
Sans meritorious actions, it is awfully deficient.
Supplicates Nanak, of what king is the man of Divine knowledge?
He who recognises his ownself comprehends Him.
The one who by Guru's grace, embraces Lord's meditation,
becomes acceptable in His court.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Thou art the River, All-knowing and All-seeing. How can I, a fish, find Thy limit?
Wherever I look there Thou art. Getting out of Thee I burst and die.
I know not the fisherman, nor do I know the net.
When pain comes, then do I call on Thee. Pause.
Thou art Omnipresent, I thought Thee distant.
Whatever I do that is in Thine presence.
Thou seest my actions, yet I deny.
I have not performed Thy service, nor have I pondered on Thy Name.
Whatever Thou givest me, that I eat.
There is no other door, to which door should I go?
Nanak makes one supplication,
my soul and body are all at Thy disposal.
The Lord Himself is near Himself far off, and Himself mid-between.
He Himself beholds and Himself hears, By His own might He creates the world.
Whatever pleases Him O Nanak! that order is acceptable.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Why should the created one take pride within his mind.
The gift is in the power of the Giver.
By His pleasure, He may give or may not give.
What can be done at the bidding of the created one?
True He Himself is and Truth it is that he likes.
(Spiritually) blind is worthless (nay rather) is worthless of the worthless. Pause.
He, who owns forest-trees, the garden and the plants,
gives then such names as is their inherent nature.
According to the ordained destiny the mortal attains the flower and fruit of Lord's love.
He himself sows and himself eats (reaps).
Transient (the body) wall and transient (the life) mason within it.
Insipid is the relish of intellect without salt (sans God's Name).
O Nanak ; if the Lord does then it gets adjusted.
Without God's Name, there is no acclamation.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
The undeceivable (mammon) can not be deceived by deceiving, nor can a dagger inflict wound (on it.)
As the Lord keeps it, so does it live. (under its influence,) the mind of this greedy man is tossed about.
Without oil how can the lamp be lighted? Pause.
Let the practise of reciting the religious booms
be the oil and the fear of of Lord be the wick of this body (lamp).
Light this lamp with the fire of the knowledge of the Truth.
With this oil thus shall(thy) lamp burn.
Make such light and then shalt thou meet the Lord. Pause.
When the Word (of His Name) softens this body soul,
and service is performed happiness is obtained.6
All the world continues coming and going.
In this world perform Lord's service.
Then, (shalt thou) get a seat in Masters Court,
and swing thy arm (happily) says Nanak.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
There is but one God, by the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
I lovingly service my True Guru with single mind and rapt attention.
He, whom God instructs, beholds in the True Guru the heart's desire, the place of pilgrimage.
He attains the mind desired blessing and obtains the boon that he wills.
Meditate on God's Name worship the name and through the Name enter the realm of supreme bliss.
O My mind! quaff God's elixir thus thy thirst shalt depart.
They, who have tasted it, through the Guru, easily remain absorbed in the Lord. Pause.
They, who have served the True Guru, have obtained the Name treasure.
Their heart remains saturated with God's elixir and their mental pride is annulled.
Their mind lotus blooms and their attention remains fixed (in the Lord in the State of Equipoise).
Their mind becomes pure, they remain absorbed in God and receive honour in His Court.
In this world, rare are they who serve their True Guru.
Having stilled their self-conceit and worldly love they keep God clasped to their heart.
I am a sacrifice unto them, who are in love with God's Name.
They who possess the inexhaustible Name, of the Infinite Lord's remain happy in the four ages.
By meeting the Guru, God's Name is obtained and the thirst of worldly love departs.
(The Guru-wards) mentally get detached from the world and their soul remains blended with God.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who enjoy the taste of God's Name.
O Nanak! By Lord's grace is obtained True Name the Treasure of Excellences.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Those who put on many garbs and wander about, but with their heart and mind practise deception.
They obtain not God's house (presence) and merge in ordure after death.
In thy own house, O My soul remain detached from the world.
He who has been enlightened by Guru's instruction, practises righteousness, self mortification and virtuous actions. Pause.
The mortal, who by Guru's instructions conquers his mind, obtains salvation and deliverance in his own home.
Joining the union of the society of Saints, meditate on the Name of God.
Even though, thou cohabit with hundreds of thousands of ladies and rule over the nine regions of the world.
Even then, without the True Guru, thou shalt not obtain happiness and receive births over and over again.
Wealth and supernatural powers follow those, though they care them not even to a sesame's extent,
who wear round their neck God's Necklace and fix their mind on Guru's feet.
Whatever pleases the Lord, that comes to pass, nothing else can be done.
Slave Nanak lives by repeating the Name. O Lord! by Thine natural disposition, grant (that to me.)
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Every thing belongs to Him, who has authority over all.
The True -Lord manifests Himself in the heart of him, who does good deeds under Guru's guidance.
True is the reputation of the true person, within whose mind the True Lord dwells.
They who meet the True Being separate not, again. They secure abode in their own home.
O My Omnipresent Lord! I have no other except God.
The True Immaculate Lord is met by the instruction of the True Guru. Pause.
He, Whom God Himself unites, meets Him and remains blended with Him.
Through profane love none meets God and he, over and over again continues coming and going.
The One (Lord) is dwelling amongst all. (He is Unique) One is pervading every where.
He, to whom God Himself becomes Merciful, gets absorbed in His Name, by the Guru's grace.
After reading and perusing the scholars and astrologers resort to controversies and quibbles.
Pernicious avarice abides within (the mortals, so their) perverted understanding and intellect recognise not the Lord.
They wander in eighty-four lakhs of species and in their roaming and rambling become miserable.
They act in accordance with the pre-ordained writ which none is potent to erase.
The service of the True Guru is hard. It is obtained by surrendering one's head and by eliminating self-conceit.
If man realises the Word, then does he meet God and all his service becomes acceptable.
By coming in contact with the invaluable (personality) of the Guru, the mortal becomes invaluable himself and his light is absorbed in the Supreme Light.
The True Guru comes and meets those who are so pre-ordained.
O My soul! cry not that thou art hungry and without provisions and do thou make no complaint regarding it.
He, who has created eight-four lakhs of species, gives sustenance to all.
The Fearless Lord is ever Merciful, He takes care of all.
O Nanak! by understanding Him, through the Guru, man obtains the door of salvation.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
They who hear God's Name and believe in it, obtain an abode in their own home.
Under Guru's instructions, praise thou the True One thus shalt thou attain God, the treasure of excellences.
Stainless are they who are imbued with God's Name. I am ever a sacrifice unto them.
The Divine light shines within the minds of those in whose hearts God dwells.
O my soul! meditate in the immaculate Lord God.
Who bear such primal writ on their brow ; by Guru's grace, they remain absorbed in Lord's love. Pause.
Ye saints, see with the searching glance that God abides close by and is fully pervading every-where.
They, who by Guru's teaching, recognise God, ever behold Him just present.
They, who possess merit, Lord ever abides in their mind. He is far removed from the vicious persons.
The apostates are sans virtue. Bereft of God's Name, they die repentingly.
They, who having heard, Gurbani, act there-on remember that God, in their hearts.
By being imbued, night and day in Lord's meditation, their mind and body become pure.
False is the colour (of mammon) like safflower's. Man weeps in pain when it vanishes.8
Who has the light of God's Name within his mind he becomes permanent for ever and ever.
The mortal after obtaining this wealth of human life, he remember no the Name of God in profound Love.
When his foot slips he can stay no longer. In the next world he obtains no place of rest.
The time once lost comes not to hand again and ultimately the man regretfully departs.
On whom God casts His merciful glance he is saved by embracing love for Him.
All act in the spirit of rivalry; and the self-willed obtain not understanding.
The service of those true Sikhs of the Guru, whose hearts are pure, becomes acceptable.
They sing God's praises daily and read regarding God and daily by chanting God's glories become absorbed in Him.
O Nanak! ever True is the Word of those, who remain attached with the love of Lord's Name.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
They who with single-mind, contemplate over God's Name and dwell upon Guru's teaching,
Their faces are ever bright in that Lord's True Court.
For ever and aye, they drink nectar and profess love for the True Name.
O Brother! the Guru-ward ever obtains honour.
They ever meditate on God's Name and wash off the filth of pride. Pause.
The wayward know not the Name and without God's Name they lose their honour.
They relish not God's Name and are attached with duality.
They are the worms of ordure fall in ordure and get absorbed in ordure.
Fruitful is life of those, who walk (live) according to True Guru's will.
They save their family and blessed is their mother who bore them.
He, whom the Master of will shows favour, repeats the Name of Lord God.
The Guru-wards, who remember God's Name and dispel the pride of self from within.
They are pure from within and without and merge in the Truest of the True.
Nanak, acceptable is the advent of those, who by Guru's instruction contemplate over God.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
God's Saints have the wealth and stock of God and they trade in consultation with the Guru.
They praise God's Name for ever and ever, Lord's Name is their merchandise and support.
The perfect Guru has implanted God's Name in the hearts of Lord's devotees as an inexhaustible treasure.
O Brother! instruct this mind of thine.
O my soul! why art thou indolent? Under Guru's instruction, ponder over Lord's Name. Pause.
The devotional service of God is to embrace love for God. If the pious person thinks deeply, (he shall understand this thing).
By hypocrisy Lord's adoration is not performed. The words of dualism make the man miserable.
The Man, within whose heart is discrimination and reflection, by intermingling he intermingles not (with apostates.)
He, is said to be God's attendant who keeps God clasped to His heart.
Dedicating his soul and body he places them before the Lord, and roots out ego from within himself.
Blest and acceptable is the pious person who never suffers defeat.9
If mortal becomes the recipient of His grace, then alone does he obtain (the Lord). Without His grace (He) cannot be obtained.
Eighty-four lakhs (species of lives) long for the Lord. He whom (God) unites comes and blends (with Him).
Through the Guru, Nanak has obtained God and he ever remains absorbed in God's Name.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
An ocean of peace is the Name of God. By Guru's grace it is procured.
By repeating Lord's Name, night and day, the mortal easily gets absorbed in the Name.
His mind is amalgamated with True God, and (his) tongue sings God's Praises.
O Brother! being engrossed in duality, the world is in misery.
By seeking the sanctuary of the Guru, and by night and day remembering the name obtain peace. Pause.
No filth attaches to the true person and with pure mind he meditates on God.
Through the Guru, realise the Lord and be absorbed in the ambrosial Name of God.
The Guru has ignited the bright light of Divine knowledge where with the darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
The self-willed are impure, and are brimful with the pollution of sin of pride and desire.
Without God's Name pollution is not washed off and in birth and death the mortal becomes miserable.
They, who are engrossed in the short-lived play, are of avail neither in this world nor in the next one.
The love of God's Name is the worship penance and self-mortification of the Guru-beloved.
The Guru-beloved ever meditates on the Name of the One, the Creator.
Nanak, contemplate over the Name of the Lord, who is the support of all the beings.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
The perverse person is engrossed in worldly love and embraces not Lord's love and world-detachment.
He comprehends not Lord's Name, ever suffers pain and loses honour in God's Court.
The pious shed their ego, are imbued with the Name and attain peace.
O my mind! day and night, thou ever remainest brimful with desires.
By serving the True Guru, worldly attachment is completely burnt down and man remains detached in his home. Pause.
The Guru-ward does good deeds and blooms. God's affection brings bliss.
Day and night he ever performs Lord's service and stilling his self-conceit becomes care-free.
By great good fortune I have met the society of saint and attuned to God the seat of eternal bliss.
He is the saint and he the world renouncer, who abides God's Name in his heart.
Anger touches not his core at all, as he has shed his self-conceit from within himself.
The Name treasure the True Guru has shown unto him and God's Nectar he drinks to his fill.
Who-so-ever has found God, has found Him in the congregation of the righteous. Through the perfect good luck Lord's love is obtained.
Being inwardly attached with ego the perverse roam about and understand not the True Guru.
Nanak, they who are tinged with the word, get imbued in God's Name. How can they be dyed without the mordant of Lord's fear?
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
Within man are all the Goods. From within his home he can obtain the required merchandise.
Every moment remember God's Name. Hardly any one obtains it through the Guru.
The treasure of the Name is inexhaustible, through the greatest good luck it is attained to.
O my mind! abandon slander, self-conceit and arrogance.
Through the Guru do thou ever remember the venerable Lord, the Unique Being. Pause.
Bright are the faces of the Guru-beloved. They reflect over Guru's words.
By pondering and deliberating over, in their mind, on God, the enemy of ego they obtain peace in this world and the next world.
In their own house they get to Lord's presence by reflecting on Guru's words.
Black become the brows of those who turn their faces away from the True Guru.
By night and day, they do afflictive deeds, and death's noose ever spies them.
Even in dream they perceive not pleasure and are wholly burnt by intense anxiety.
One Lord's is the bestower of all. He Himself bestows bounties.
He gives unto him, whom He is pleased with. No one has any say in it.
Nanak, god is obtained through the Guru. He Himself understands His ownself.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
Serve the True Lord, who will grant thee true greatness.
By Guru's grace, God abides within man's mind and drives away his pride.
When the Lord Himself casts His merciful glance, then alone is this fleeting mind restrained.
O Brother! through the Guru meditate on Lord's Name.
When the Name treasure ever abides in man's mind he finds a place in Lord's palace. Pause.
There is darkness within the mind and body of an apostate. He has neither shelter nor place of rest.
He continues roaming about, in many existences, like a crow in a deserted house.
By Guru's teaching Divine Light shines in the heart and by his word God's Name is gained.
Thou art blinded by the wickedness of three dispositions and the darkness of the attachment of wealth.
The men of avarice serve others, even though they advertise their study of Vedas.
In sin they are burnt down to death. They are neither on this shore nor on the yonder.
In the love of wealth they have forgotten the Father of the World. the Cherisher.
Without the Guru, all the mortals are unmindful and are in the bondage of the myrmidon of death.
O Nanak! by pondering on the True Name, under Guru's instruction, thou art saved.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
In the three temperaments is the attachment of wealth. The Guru-beloved attains to the fourth state of celestial beatitude.
The Lord mercifully unites with Himself those, within whose mind God's Name enters and acquires an abode.
They in whose treasure is benevolence, them the Lord unites with saints congregation.
O Brother! abide thou in Truth by guru's instructions.
Practise nothing but Truth and unite with the True Name. Pause.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who have recognised God's Name.
Having renounced my self conceit I fall at their feet and walk (act) in accordance with their-will.
Reaping the profit of Lord God's Name, I shall thus be easily absorbed in Name.
Without the Guru, man obtains not God's mansion, nor does he attain to His Name.
Search for and obtain such True Guru through whom mayest gain that True Lord.
He, who slays his evil passion abides in peace. What ever pleases Him that comes to pass.
As is the intensity of belief in the True Guru, so is the comfort, the mortal obtains.
There is absolutely no doubt in this, but only a rare person embraces love for the Guru.
Nanak, God and the Guru have two forms but they have the same one Light. It is by the word that mortal attains to the union with God.1
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
Discarding ambrosia, (the perverse) cling to poison and serve other (than the Lord).
They lose their faith, understand not God and pass night and day in pain.
The blind wayward think not of the Lord and are drowned to death without water.
O my Mind! ever remember God and seek His shelter.
If Guru's Word abides within thy mind, thou shalt not forget God, then. Pause.
This body is a puppet of mammon. In it is infused the evil ego.
In coming and going, birth and death an apostate loses honour.
By serving the True Guru man attains to eternal peace and his light merges with the Supreme Light.
The service of the Sat Guru is extremely ease-bestowing and by it one obtains the boon that he desire.
By placing Lord God in the mind continence, truthfulness and penance are obtained and the body becomes pure.
Such person ever remain happy day and night and procures peace by meeting the Beloved.
I am devoted unto those, who have sought the protection of the True Guru.
In the True Court they obtains true honour and are easily absorbed in the True Lord.
Nanak, through associating with the society of the Exalted Guru one meets the Lord by His grace.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
The performance of rituals by an apostate is like of the bodily decoration of the wife discarded by her husband.
Her Spouse comes not to her couch and she becomes miserable for ever and aye.
She attains not to the presence of her Bridegroom and does not ever see the door of His mansion.
O Brother! with single mind remember God's Name.
By remaining united with the society of saints and repeating the Name of God, thou attainest peace. Pause.
Ever blissful is the virtuous wife, she keeps her spouse her gait and she enjoys the couch of her spouse.
Sweet is her speech humble her gait and she enjoys the couch of her spouse.
Praise-worthy and eternally wedded life is of the bride, who bears infinite love to the Guru.
When destiny awakens, man meets the True Guru through the greatest good luck.
Suffering and superstition are annulled from within and peace is procured.
He who lives according to Guru's will suffers no anguish.
In the will of the Guru lies ambrosia. Through equipoise hardly any one obtains it.
They, who are destined to have it, quaff Nectar by rooting out pride from within themselves.
By remembering the Name through the Guru O Nanak! union with the True Lord is effected.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
If thou realise, he is thy husband, place thy body and soul before Him.
Do thou those deeds, which deeds the chastewives do.
By resignation and faith thou shalt acquire union with the True One, who shall bestow on thee true glory.
O Brother! without the Guru, devotional worship of God is not performed.
Sans the Guru, Lord's worship cannot be obtained even though all may long for it. Pause.
Because of another's love the bride goes round in the circuit of eighty-four lakhs of live.
Without the Guru she has no sleep and passes her night in agony.
Without Guru's words, the Beloved is not obtained and she loses her life in vain.2
Practising pride and ego, she wandered about in the world, but wealth and property shall not accompany her.
The blind one thinks not of the Name. Every one is bound by the angle of death.
By meeting the True Guru, wealth of His Name is obtained and man contemplates over God's Name in his heart.
They, who are dyed with God's Name, are spotless. By Guru's grace they are adorned with Divine knowledge.
Their soul and body are tinctured with Lord's love and their tongue enjoys the Name Nectar.
Nanak the love-dye, which God has applied from the very outset, does not wear off.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
If the Exalted Guru shows favour God's worship is performed, without the Guru, Lord's service is not possible.
if the Guru unites with his ownself, then the man understands the Lord and becomes pure.
True is the Sire God and True is His Bani. it is through Guru's word that one unites with the Lord.
O Brother! what for has one without meditation come into this world?
He has nor performed the service of the Perfect Guru and has wasted his life in vain. Pause.
God, the life of the world Himself, is the Giver of peace and granting pardon, Himself unites the mortal with His ownself.
What are these helpless creatures? What can any one say and preach?
The Lord Himself grants glory to the pious person and Himself puts him to His service.
See (O Man!) thy family, whose affection has lured thee, shall not go with thee at thy departure.
By serving the True Guru I have obtained God, the Treasure of excellences. His worth cannot be appraised.
Lord God, my comrade and friend and my Master, shall be my helper at the end.
In the heart of his heart one may say or cause to be said anything but without the Guru self-conceit is not removed.
Venerable God, the bestower is the love of devotional service. By bestowing His grace, He abides in man's mind.
Nanak, the Lord Himself confers singing of His praises and spiritual awakening and to the Guru beloved, He grants glory.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
Blessed is the mother, who bore him and blessed the respectable father of him,
who by serving the True Guru has obtained peace and vanished ego from within himself.
Standing at the door of God, the Treasure of virtues, the holy persons serve and obtain Him.
O my soul! through, the Exalted Guru meditate on that God.
If Guru's word abide within thy soul, thy mind and body shall be rendered neat and clean. Pause.
Having showered His benediction, my Lord has entered my house and has Himself met me.
If, by Guru's instruction man sings the praises of God, He automatically dyes him in His love.
Becoming truthful the mortal merges in the True One remains blended with Him and separates not.
Whatever the Lord is to do He is doing. No one else can do any thing.
Taking into his own account the True Guru has united with God, the souls separated since long.
He Himself puts mortals to various pursuits. Nothing else can be done.
He, whose soul and body are imbued with Lord's love, eschews ego and evil.
Day and night in His mind he continues repeating the Name of the Fearless and Formless One.
Nanak, He unites his with Himself through the Perfect word of the Infinite.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
The Lord of the world is the storehouse of merits. His limit cannot be known.3
By words of mouth He is not obtained. He is attained by turning out self-conceit from within.
By meeting the True Guru, man ever remains permeated in the fear of Lord who Himself comes and dwells in his mind.
O Brother! some rare person understands the Truth through the Guru.
To attend to temporal affairs without realising the reality is to lose the wealth of human life. Pause.
Who have tasted the Name Nectar, they enjoy its relish. Without tasting it, men go astray in doubt.
Ambrosia is the True Name but one can say not its praise.
No sooner does the man drink the Name Nectar than he becomes acceptable and gets absorbed in the Perfect Lord.
If God Himself gives we receive Nectar, then, No other effort can be made.
The gift is in the hand of the Giver. We receive it at the Guru's Door.
As the Lord does, so it comes to pass, and accordingly deeds the mortal performs.
Continence truthfulness and self-restraint are all contained in God's Name. Without the Name man becomes not spotless.
Through perfect good fortune, the Name dwells in the mortal's mind and he attains to the union of the Lord through the Word.
Nanak, who effortlessly lives in Lord's love, he, obtains the gift of Lord's praises.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
Man may torment his body and perform penance, with body reversed, his pride would not go from within him.
If he performs artificial spiritual rites, he shall never attain to God's Name.
The Name of God comes and abides in the mind of him, who under Guru's instruction while alive, remains dead.
Hearken, O my soul! hasten thou to the sanctuary of the True Guru.
By Guru's grace, thou shalt be exonerated. Thou shalt cross the terrible world-ocean of poison by Guru's Word. Pause.
Perishable are all the deeds pertaining to the three qualities for in duality is the sin.
Bound with the bonds of worldly love the Pandit reads scriptures and being attached to sin he realises not God.
By meeting the True Guru, man is relieved of the bondage of three qualities and obtains the door of salvation in the fourth state.
Through the Guru, God's way is found and the darkness of temporal love is dispelled.
If man dies by God's Name he is saved then and obtains the door of salvation.
By Guru's grace he remains blended with the True Name of the Creator.
This mind is extremely powerful and by no endeavours, what ever, it leaves the man.
The mind affects man with the disease of duality and inflicts severe punishment on him.
Nanak, they who are attached with Name are saved and God's Name banishes their ego.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
When God shows mercy the Guru is found and he implants God's Name with the man.
Without the Guru no one has obtained the Name and the man loses his life in vain.
An apostate does misdeeds and he suffers punishment in Lord's Court.
O my Soul! forsake another's love.
Within thee abides God. Do thou attain to peace by serving the Guru. Pause.
If thou embracest love for the True Lord, true shall be thy speech and true thy faith.
By abiding God's Name in the mind pride and wrath are wiped off.
If mortal ponders on the Name with pure mind, then does he reach the door of salvation.
In pride the world perishes. It dies and is reborn and continues coming and going.
The perverse recognise not Lord's Name. They depart in disgrace.4
By performing the service of the Guru the Name is gained and one remains absorbed in the True Lord.
By obeying Guru's directive and eradicating self-conceit from within the Great Lord is obtained.
Such a person, night and day ever lovingly performs the service of the True One.
The wealth of God's Name abides within his mind and he gets absorbed in the celestial bliss, O Nanak!
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
The persons who serve not the True Guru; they shall be miserable through the four ages.
In their home is the Guru-Good, whom they recognise not. They are duped by ego and pride.
Accursed by the True Guru, they have grown weary of begging the world over.
They have meditated not on the True Word, which nicely does all the affairs.
O my Mind! ever see God just close-by.
(Thus) God shall annul thy pain of birth and death and thou shalt remain brimful with His Name. Pause.
They alone are true who praise the True Lord and whose sustenance is the True Name.
They do the righteous deeds and bear love to the True Name.
The writ of the True Banker runs and there is no eraser of it.
The wayward attain not the Lord's palace. Those liars are duped by falsehood.
Engrossed in conceit the world is perishing. Without the Guru, there is pitch dark.
Attached to mammon the world has forgotten, the Great Bestower, the Dispenser of peace.
If it performs the service of the True Guru and keeps the True Being clasped to its heat, it is saved then.
By Guru's grace alone we obtain the Lord and reflect on the True World.
If thou servest the True Guru, thy mind becomest pure and thou sheldest thy ego and evil.
Leave thou thy self-conceit remain dead though alive and deliberate over Guru's Word.
By embracing affection for the True Being the running after worldly pursuits comes to an end.
The faces of those who are imbued with Truth Become bright in that True Court.
They, who worship not the Divine True Guru and cherish not love for the Word,
in spite of their repeated ablution and almsgiving are ruined by profane love.
If Sire God shows His mercy then does man come to profess love for the Name.
Through the infinite Love of the Guru, O Nanak! do thou meditate on Lord's Name.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
Whom shall I serve? What shall I meditate upon? I go and ask the True Guru.
I submit to the will of the True Guru and have expelled my self conceit from within me.
This is the service and meditation of the Lord by which the Name comes and dwells in my mind.
Through God's Name alone happiness is obtained and the man is adorned by True Word.
My mind, night and day remain wakeful and ponder over God.
Protect thy crop else the swallow shall descend on the farm. Pause.
He, who is filled with God's Name, has his heart's desires fulfilled.
He, who fears, loves and serves the Lord day and night ever sees the Venerable God just close at hand.
Doubt flees away from the body of him whose soul ever remains imbued with the True Name.
He attains to the Immaculate Lord who is True and an Ocean of Excellences.
They who remain awake, are saved. They who are asleep, are plundered.
They recognise not the True Name and their life passes off like a dream.5
Like the guest of a deserted house, as he came so does he go.
The life of an apostate passes away in vain. What face shall he show on arrival before God?
The Lord Himself is all in all. In pride man cannot utter His Name.
Through the Guru's word is He realised and the disease of pride is eradicated from within.
I fall at the feet of those who wait upon their own True Guru.
Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto those, who are found true in the True Court.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
If we think of the suitable time and moment, at what time, then can the worship of Lord be performed?
By remaining night and day, imbued with God's Name, the true Person has true reputation.
When one Forgets the Beloved even for a moment, what sort of devotional service is that?
One whose soul and body are cool, with the True Name, no breath of his goes in vain.
O my soul! meditate on the Name of God.
Then alone the true worship is performed if God comes and dwells within man's mind. Pause.
In mental poise, cultivate the farm and sow the seed of the True Name.
The seedlings have luxuriantly sprouted and naturally the mind is well satisfied.
Guru's Word is Nectar by drinking which thirst is quenched.
This true soul then is dyed in the True Name and remains absorbed in the True Lord.
In its speech, sight and utterance, this soul remains permeated in the Name.
Gurbani has become renowned in the four ages and it preaches nothing but Truth.
The True One merges him in Himself, whose egotism and egoism stand eliminated.
They, who remain absorbed in True Lord love, see His place just close at hand.
By God's grace, His Name is meditated upon. Without His favour, it cannot be obtained.
Through the perfect good luck he, meets, obtains the society of saints.
By remaining imbued with God's Name, night and day, annoying evil gets dispelled from within the man.
Nanak, by merging with the Name of the Lord, one obtains union with God.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
They who deliberate over Guru's hymns are blessed by the Lord with His fear.
They ever remain united with society of saints and ponder over the excellences of the True One.
They cast of filth of double mindedness and keep God clasped to their heart.
True is their speech, true their mind and with True Lord do they bear affection.
O my mind! thou art filled with the dirt of ego.
The Immaculate Lord is ever beautiful. His word is the regenerator of man. Pause.
The Lord unites with Himself those, whose soul the True Word has fascinated.
Night and day, they remain imbued with God's Name and their light is absorbed in the Supreme Light.
Through (inner) light alone, the Lord is revealed. Without the true Guru understanding is not procured.
The True Guru comes and meets those, for whom there is such a pre-ordained writ.
Without the Name every one is miserable and is ruined by duality.
Without Him (the soul) cannot live in peace even for an instant and passes her night (life) in anguish.
The blind one, gone astray in doubt, continues coming and going over and over again
If the Lord shows His mercy, He blends man with Himself.6
The Lord Hears and Sees every thing. How can, then, man refuse to admit?
They, who commit sins upon sins, putrefy and die in sins.
That Lord they perceive not. The self-willed obtain not understanding.
He alone, whom God shows, sees Him. O Nanak! through the Guru He is obtained.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
Without the Guru disease is not cured nor is the pain of pride removed.
By Guru's grace God dwells in the mind and man remains merged in His Name.
Through Guru's hymns God is obtained. Without Gurbani the man is lost in doubt.
O my Soul! thou shalt dwell in thy real Home.
Praise the name of the Lord thou shalt not again come and go. Pause.
God alone, the Bestower, is doing everything. There is no other second.
If thou praise the Lord, He shall abide in thy mind and thou shalt automatically obtain peace.
God beholds (keeps) all under His glance, He gives gift to Him whom He likes.
In pride are all counts. Unto counting one's doings there is no solace.
Men take to evil ways and sink in evil.
Without Lord's Name, they find no resting place and suffer agony in the city of death.
The soul and body all being to Him and there is no support except that of Him.
If by Guru's grace, man understand this it is then, that he attains to the door of salvation.
O Nanak! sing thou the praises of the Name of God whose limit, this and that end, no one knows.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
They alone are in joy and ever-lasting peace who have the support of the True Name.
By Guru's gospel they have obtained the True Being, the Destroyer of distress.
For ever and aye, they sing the praises of the True Lord and profess love for the True Name.
By showing His Mercy, the Lord has bestowed on them the treasures of His devotion.
O My mind! everlasting bliss is acquired by singing Lord's praises.
Through the True Word God is gained and man remains blended with God. Pause.
With sincere worship, the mind goes red and is naturally, imbued with Lord's love.
By Guru's Word the soul is so bewitched that its description cannot be given.
The tongue is imbued with the True Name. It delightfully quaffs the Nectar of chanting God's glories.
He, unto whom the Lord of Will shows mercy, obtains this Divine love, through the Guru.
This word is asleep in an illusion and in sleep the night (life) passes away.
Some He delivers of His own will and unites with Himself.
He Himself abides within (man's) mind and drives off love of mammon.
He Himself bestows honour and causes Himself to be understood through the Guru.
The Lord alone is the Giver for all. He corrects those in error.
He Himself has misled some and has attached them to duality.
Under Guru's instruction God is attained and man's soul merges with the Supreme Soul.
By remaining imbued with Lord's Name night and day, O Nanak! mortal is absorbed in the Name.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
The virtuous attained the Truth by forsaking desire for vice.7
The mind of such is dyed in Guru's word and on their tongue is the love and affection of God.
Without the True Guru, no one has gained God. Reflect on it in thy mind and see.
The filth of the apostate is not washed off, until he enshrines not affection for Guru's Word.
O my soul! walk in the Way of the True Guru.
Thus thou shalt abide in thy own home, drink Nectar and get at the peace of Lord's presence. Pause.
The impious one has no merit she is not permitted to sit by the Beloved.
The apostate knows not God and being virtueless is far-removed from that Lord.
They who have recognised the True Lord, remain imbued and fully-filled with Truth.
Whose mind is pierced through with Guru's Word, them the Lord receives in Him presence.
God Himself dyes man in the dyeing vessel and through Him Name unites him with Himself.
Who are imbued by embracing love for the True Lord, their true colour fades not.
The way-ward grow weary of wandering in four directions but obtain not understanding.
Whom the True Guru unites, he meets and blends with the True Lord.
Thinking that some one will annual my agonies, I am tired of making many friends.
By meeting my Beloved my woes ended, and I have attained union with the Lord.
The truthful person has true reputation. He possesses the wealth of Truth and Truth he earns.
Having become virtuous, O Nanak! they who meet the True Guru, separate not again.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
He Himself, the Cause and Creator, creates and having fashioned the universe Himself beholds it.
God the one alone does everything. The unseen Lord cannot be seen
The Lord Himself is Merciful and He Himself imparts understanding.
Under Guru's instruction, the True Lord ever abides within the heart of man and he remains imbued in His love.
O My Mind! submit to the will of the Guru.
Thy soul and body shall all become cool and God's Name shall come and abide in thy heart. Pause.
He, who having created the Creation, has supported it, that Creator takes care of it.
We recognise the Lord by Guru's Word, when He Himself casts His merciful glance.
Those persons, who are imbued with the True word look beautiful with God's Name in the Court of the True Lord,
when Gurmukhs are attuned to the word of the Guru, the Creator unites them with Himself.
By Guru's instruction praise the True One, whose limit, this and that end is not known.
In every heart by His sweet pleasure the Lord abides and through His pleasure the mortals ponder on Him.
Driving out thy pride from within sing the praises of the Master by Guru's instruction.
The sinful wife, bereft of her Lord's Name, weeps and cries.
The True Lord, I praise, the True Lord I am attached with and with the true Name I am satisfied.
Merits I think of, merits I amass and of demerit I wash myself clean.
The Lord Himself unites in His union and then there is no separation.
Nanak, I chant the praises of my Guru, through whom I find that Lord.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
Hear, hear, ye O woman! seized of lust why walkest thou swinging thy arm?
Thou recognistst not thy Spouse. Going there what face shalt thou show unto Him?
My fellow-maids who have known their Spouse; I touch their feet.8
May I become like them by associating with the union of the society of Saints.
O Woman! the false one, is cheated by falsehood.
The True and Beauteous Beloved Lord is obtained by Divine deliberation imparted by the Guru. Pause.
The perverse brides know not the Bridegroom. How shall they pass their life-night?
Filled with ego they burn in desire and suffer pain in another's love.
They who are imbued with Word are His happy wives, from within them pride is eliminated.
They ever enjoy their Spouse and their life-night passes in extreme bliss.
The Bridegroom has abandoned those who are devoid of Divine knowledge and they cannot obtain His love.
She, who is of indiscreet intellect, is in darkness. Without beholding the Husband (Lord) her hunger departs not.
Come and meet me my maids and unite me with my Beloved.
She, who by perfect destiny meets the True Guru, finds her darling Spouse and is merged in the True one.
Those maids, on whom the Lord cast His look of favour, becomes happy wives.
She, who recognises her Spouse places her body and soul before Him.
By dispelling her self-conceit, she finds her Bridegroom (Master) in her own home.
Nanak, they who remain absorbed in Divine devotion, night and day, are the happy and embellished brides.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
Some enjoy their dear Husband. At whose door should I go to inquire (about my Consort)?
I lovingly serve my True Guru so that he may cause me to meet my Beloved.
The Creator has created all and Himself watches them. Some are near to Him and some afar.
She who realises her Consort to be with her, ever enjoys her consort's presence.
O Woman! do thou live according to Guru's will.
Thus shalt thou enjoy thy Spouse, night and day and get easily merged in the True Lord. Pause.
They who are devoted to God's Word are His chaste wives. They are decorated with the True Name.
By embracing affection for their Guru, they obtain God as their Husband in their own home.
Their bed is beauteous, they lovingly enjoy God, who have brimful treasures of devotion.
That beloved Lord, who lends support to all, abides in their mind.
I am ever devoted unto those who praise their dear consort.
My mind and body I dedicate unto them and give my head too. I fall at their feet.
They who recognise the One Lord, eschew another's love.
By realising the Name, through the Guru, Man gets merged in the True Lord, O Nanak!
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
My adorable God, Thou art the Truest of the true. Every one is in Thy power.
Without meeting Guru, the spiritual guide, the mortals tantalizingly wander about in eighty four lakhs of existences.
If Reverend God forgives and grants pardon, the human body then ever remains in peace.
By Guru's grace, I perform the service of the True profound and unfathomable Lord.
O my Soul! by being imbued with the Name thou shalt procure peace.
Under Guru's guidance praise the Lord's Name, (for) there is no other second than He. Pause.
The Righteous Judge is under command to sit and administer even-handed justice.
The evil souls with love for duality; they are thine subjects.
God, the Treasure of excellences abides within the heart of the spiritual wayfarers and they meditate on One Lord the enemy of ego.9
The Righteous Judge does their service. Felicitous is the Lord who adorns them.
If man sheds his mind's evils in the mind itself and banishes from it worldly love and self conceit,
then does he come to recognise the Pervading Soul and easily gets absorbed in the Lord's name.
Without the True Guru, and apostate obtains not salvation and wanders about like a lunatic.
He reflects not on the Word but utters mere words from mouth and is engrossed in sins.
Everything the Lord Himself is. There is no other second.
When that Lord Himself causes us to speak, we speak just as He wants us to speak.
The Exalted Guru's Word is God Himself and it is through Word that man obtains union with God.
O Nanak! Remember thee God's Name, by serving whom, thou shalt obtain peace.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
Having been smeared with the filth of pride the world suffer pain. This filth of pride attaches because of profane love.
By no means this dirt of ego is washed off, even thou one may have ablutions at hundreds of place of pilgrimage.
By performing rituals in various ways, rather, two-fold filth attaches to man.
The filth is not removed by acquiring knowledge. Go, and consult the divines.
O my mind! if thou seek the shelter of the Guru, than shalt thou become filth-less.
The perverse have grown weary of repeating God's Name, but their dirt could not be washed off.
With dirty soul, God's meditation is not performed, nor is the Name obtained.
Impure the apostate live, impure they die and lose honour as they depart.
By guru's grace the filth of pride is destroyed and the master abides within man's mind.
As the igniting of a lamp in darkness, so the Guru-given Divine Knowledge dispel spiritual darkness.
I am an idiotic fool for I say : I have done this and I will do that.
I have forgotten the real doer, am in love with duality.
No pain is as great as that of the attachment with mammon. Infected with it, one grows weary of wandering in the entire world.
By wearing the True Name to the heart, by Guru's instruction, man obtain peace.
He whom God unites, meets Him. I am a sacrifice unto such a person.
When this soul is imbued with Master's meditation, through the true word, it find its place.
Thy soul shall be imbued, and imbued shall be thy tongue with Lord's love, if thou sing the praises of the True God.
Nanak, forget not God's Name, and be merged in the True one.
Sri Rag Fourth Guru.
Within mind and body is an exceedingly great pang of separation, How shall my Beloved come to meet me in my home?
When I see my Lord, by seeing Him, my anguish is ended.
I go and ask those friends the way, by which, the Lord is met and introduced?
O my true Guru! without Thee, I have none else.
I am foolish and ignorant and have sought thine sanctuary. Take pity on me and unite me with that God. Pause.
The true Guru is the giver of God's Name, Himself, he causes me to meet the Lord.
The True Guru has understood the Lord God. None else is as great as the Guru.
I go and fall under Guru's protection. By his grace he unites me with that Lord.0
Through mind's obstinacy none has obtained the Lord. All have grown weary of making efforts.
By adopting thousands of cleverness the mortals have failed. The unimpressionable mind embraces not Lord's love.
Through falsehood and deceit no one has gained God. Whatever one shows that he eats.
My master! thou art the hope of all. All the beings are Thine and Thou art their wealth.
From Thou, O Lord! none is empty handed. At Thy door, the Guru's beloved, get applause.
Slave Nanak makes an supplication, men are being drowned in the dreadful ocean of vice, do Thou drag them out.
Sri Rag Fourth Guru.
By acquiring God's Name, the soul is satiated. Without the Name, accursed is the life.
If I meet some Holy Friends, who points out to me the Lord, the Treasure of virtues.
I am quartered unto him, who reveals unto me the Lord's Name.
O my Beloved! I live by contemplating over the Name.
Without God's Name, I cannot sustain life. O my True Guru! implant the Name within me. Pause.
The Name is an invaluable jewel. It is with the perfect Guru.
The True Guru brings out and gives the bright jewel Name to him who is attaches to His service.
Blessed and the most fortunate of the very fortunate are they who come to the Guru and meet Him
They, who have not met the Divine True Guru are unfortunate and subject to death.
They are goaded into existences over and over again, being made terrible worms, and put into ordure.
Draw not near and in the neighbourhood of those in whose heart is the pariah wrath.
God- incarnate True Guru, is the pool of Nectar, the fortunate ones come and bath there-in.
Their filth of many births is washed off and the immaculate Name is implanted within them.
By fixing his attention on the True Guru, serf Nanak has obtained the supreme state (of Bliss).
Sri Rag Fourth Guru.
Lord's praises do I sing, His praises do I blazon and praises do I utter, O my mother!
The exalted Guru, my friend, is bestower of virtue. By meeting my friend I harp upon God's glories.
By meeting (the Guru) diamond (my mind) diamond is pierced and is dyed deep red with God's Name
O My Lord of the universe! By chanting Thine glories my soul is satiated.
My mind is a-thirst for God's Name. May the Guru be pleased to grant that Name to me. Pause.
Tincture your hearts with Lord's love, O ye the very fortunate. The Guru shall be pleased to confer on you his gifts.
I am a sacrifice unto the True Guru who with love implants God's Name with me.
Without the True Guru, God's Name is not found, even though man may perform lakhs and millions of ceremonies.
Without Destiny the True Guru is not found even thou one sittest daily near and close to Him in his home.
Within is the pain of ignorance and superstition. Between the man and the Lord lies separating screen.
Without meeting the True Guru, man becomes not gold. An apostate sinks like iron while the boat is just close by.
The ship of the True Guru is the Name of God. In what way can mortal embark there on?
He, who acts according to True Guru's Will, comes and sits in the ship.
Hail, hail unto the greatly fortunate persons, whom the True Guru blends with God, O Nanak!1
Sri Rag Fourth Guru.
Ever standing up I inquire of the way to my Lord. If some one shows me the way, I would go to Him.
I follow in the foot steps of those who have enjoyed my Beloved.
Them I beseech and them I entreat. I have a yearning to meet my Master.
My fellow Brother! let some one unite me in the union of my Lord God.
I am a sacrifice unto my True Guru, who has shown to me the Lord Master. Pause.
In utter humility, I lie prostrate before the Perfect True Guru.
The Guru is the honour of the dishonoured. The great Sat Guru makes man applaudable.
I ever feel hungry for praising the Guru. He unites me with the Lord God.
Every one the entire world and all long for the True Guru.
Without good luck His sight cannot be had. The unfortunate sit and bewail.
Whatever is the Will of Lord God that does come to pass. None can erase the pre-ordained writ.
God Himself is the Sat Guru Himself the Lord and Him self unites man in His union.
Making man follow the Great True Guru the Lord mercifully blends him with Himself.
In this world the Lord Himself is the life of the entire Universe Like water merging into water O Nanak, God's slave gets absorbed in God.
Sri Rag, Fourth Guru.
The relish of the immortalising Name Nectar is exquisitely fine. In what way can I obtain the Nectar to taste it?
Go and ask the true wives as to how did they come to meet the Lord?
They are care-free and tell not I repeatedly rub and wash their feet.
O Brother! meet Guru the friend and heartily dwell upon God's Merits.
Your Friends is the True Beings Guru who beats out and drives away the pangs of pride. Pause.
The Guru-wards enjoy the nuptial-love, and their hearts are moved with compassion.
The word of the True Guru is the emerald. He who accepts it tastes God's elixir.
They, who by Guru's love, partake of Lord's ambrosia are known to be great and exceedingly fortunate.
This elixir of God is contained in forest, straw and the whole universe but the unfortunate taste it not.
Without the True Guru it is not obtained. The apostate remain bewailing.
They bow not before the True Guru. In their heart is the goblin of wrath.
God Himself is the relish of His Name and he Himself is the Divine elixir.
Showing His grace, God Himself gives the Name Nectar to the various and trickles it (into his mouth).
Then O Nanak! man's body and soul are all reverdured and that God lives within his mind.
Sri Rag Fourth Guru.
The day dawns, then it sinks and the whole night passes away.
The age diminishes, but the man understands not. The mouse (of Time) is daily gnawing down the rope of life.
Like sweet molasses is spread the mammon and clinging there to-like a fly an apostate pines and putrefies.
O Brother! that Lord is my Friend and comrade.
The love of sons and wife is poison. In the end none becomes mortals helper. Pause.2
Under Guru's instruction men are emancipated by embracing love for God and by seeking Lord's sanctuary, they remain detached from the world.
They ever keep death before their eyes, amass the viaticum of God's Name and receive honour.
Guru-Beloveds are honoured in Lord's court. God himself takes them in His embrace.
For the holy, the way to God is manifest. At Lord's door they face no obstruction.
They praise Lord's Name, keep the Name in mind and remain attached with the Name's love.
The unstruck music plays for them at God's Gate and they receive honour in the True court.
They who have praised the Name, through the Guru ; them every one applauds.
Grant me their association, Omy Lord! I a beggar of Thine, make this supplication.
Great is the luck of the pious persons, O Nanak! within whose heart is the light of God's Name.
Sri Rag Fourth Guru.
Why art thou intoxicated by beholding thy son and bedecked wife?
Thou enjoyest delicacies, makest merry and indulgest in infinite pleasures.
Thou givest many commands and actest haughtily.
The blind, idiotic, perverse person thinks not of the creator.
O my soul! that God is the Giver of peace.
It is through Guru's grace that God is obtained. It is the good luck that thou gettest Him. Pause.
Man is entangled in the enjoyments of clothes and viands, the gold and silver which are but dust.
He has horses and elephants of many types and amasses untiring carriages.
He remembers none else and has forgotten all his kith and kin.
He has grown oblivious of the creator and is impure sans God's Name.
Thou earnest evil imprecation and amassest wealth.
He, whom thou pleaseth, is perishable along with thee.
O proud Man! thou takest pride and art engrossed in thy mind's intellect.
He, whom the Lord Himself has put on the wrong track, has no caste and no honour.
The Divine True Guru has caused me to meet that Lord, the only friend of mine
The one Lord is the saviour of His slave. Why should a haughty man bewail in pride?
God does that what His saint wishes, No request of his is turned down from the God's court.
Nanak is imbued with love of God, whose light is pervading the entire universe.
Sri Rag Fourth Guru.
Man's mind is gone astray in recreations, deep and varied amusements and the pleasure of eye-sight.
Even umbrellaed Emperors, are involved in anxiety.
O Brother! I gathered peace in the society of saints.
That Lord, the destiny scribe, wrote such a writ, and my anguish and anxiety are annulled. Pause.
I have wandered through as many place as there are.
The masters of wealth and big land-lords have fallen (perished) crying this is mine, this is mine.
They issues commands fearlessly and act in pride.
They have subdued all but without Lord's Name they mix with dust.
The monarch, at whose door stood as servants, the thirty three millions of God's and the men of miracle and strivers,
and who ruled over mountains oceans and empires, O Nanak! all have become like a dream.3
Sri Rag Fifth Guru.
Arising each day, the man cherishes his body, but without understanding the Lord, he is idiot and ignorant.
That Lord he remembers not, (his body) shall be forsaken in wilderness.
Attach the mind with The True Guru and enjoy bliss for ever and aye.
O mortal! thou come to earn profit.
With what useless task art thou engaged? Thy entire Night (life) is coming to an end. Pause.
The animals and birds frisk about and behold not death.
With (like) them is also the man who is ensnared in the net of mammon.
They alone who contemplate over the True Name, are considered to be emancipated.
That house which is to be abandoned and vacated that is attached to the mind.
Thou hast no anxiety regarding the one where the hast to go and dwell.
They, who fall at Guru's feet, are freed of the bondage.
No one can save, without the Guru, I see none else.
I have searched the four directions and have come and entered Guru's sanctuary.
I was drowning (but Guru), the True king, has saved me, O Nanak!
Sri Rag Fifth Guru.
Man is a guest for a trice and moment in this world to set a right his affairs.
But the ignorant man understands not and is engrossed in wealth and lust.
He arises and departs (from the world) repentingly and falls into the clutches of death myrmidon.
O blind (Man)! thou art sitting close to the falling shore of the river.
If thou art so pre-destined, then act up to Guru's mandate. Pause.
The reaper (of the crop of life) neither sees unripe, nor half-ripe nor ripe.
Having made preparation, seizing and taking their sickles the croppers arrive.
When the Land Lord's order is issued then the field-crop reaped and measured.
The first watch of the night (life) passes in worthless affairs and during the second (mortal) sleeps to his fill.
In the third he prates nonsensically and in the fourth the day of death breaks.
He who gave him soul and body never enters his mind.
I am devoted unto, and sacrifice my very life to the congregation of the righteous.
Through whom, understanding has entered my mind, and I have met the Omniscient Lord.
Nanak sees ever with him the wise Lord, the knower of the hearts.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
Let me forget everything, but forget not the One Lord.
Having burnt (left) all the profane pursuits, the Guru has given God's Name, the true aim of life.
Giving up all other hopes repose only in One Hope of God.
They who serve the True Guru, secure a place in the younder world.
O Mind! do thou praise the Creator.
Eschew all thy cleverness and fall at the feet of the Guru. Pause.
Pain and hunger shall oppress thee not if God, the Giver of peace be in thy mind.
If that True Lord abides within man's mind, he fails in no under-taking of his.
He, whom Thou, O Lord, protects by giving Thine Hand, him none can slay.
Wait upon Guru, the giver of peace, and he shall wash off all thy sins.
Thy servant asks for the service of those, whom, Thou, O Lord! hast put to Thine service.4
The association and the arduous service of Saints are obtained, if the Lord be mightily pleased.
Everything is in the power of the Master. He Himself is the Doer of deeds.
I am a sacrifice unto my True Guru, who fulfils all my aspirations.
The unique Lord is seen to be my well-wisher and He alone is my brother and friend.
All the goods are of the One Lord and He alone has bound every-thing in system.
With One God, my soul is propitiated. It is then my mind is rendered stable.
The True Name is Nanak's viand, True Name his raiment and the True Name he has made his prop.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
I receive all the commodities if Him alone I obtain.
The invaluable human life become fruitful, if the True Name be repeated.
He, whose brow bear such a writ, obtains Lord presence through the Guru.
O my soul! fix thy attention with the one Lord.
Without one all else is but an entanglement. the love of mammon is all false. Pause.
If the True Guru casts His merciful glance, I enjoy the happiness of lakhs of empires.
Were he to bless me with His Name even for a trance, my soul and body will become cool.
They, who are so pre-ordained. hold fast the feet of the True Guru.
Fruitful is the moment and fruitful the time when love for the True Lord is embraced.
Suffering and sorrow do not touch him, who has the support of God's Name.
Whom the Guru takes out, seizing by the arm he crosses the (Sea of Life).
Embellished and immaculate is the place where the Saints' congregation is held.
He alone who has found the Perfect Guru, obtains the place of protection.
Nanak has founded his house on that (ground) where there is no death, birth and old age.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
O my Soul! meditate on Him who is the over Lord of Kings and emperors.
My mind! repose hope, in Him alone, in whom all have confidence.
Shed all thy clevernesses and take to the feet of the Guru.
My Soul! with ease and calmness dwell upon God's Name.
Through the eight watches (of the day), do thou think of the Lord and ever sing the praises of the World illuminator. Pause.
Seek His shelter, O Soul! whom none equals in greatness.
By remembering whom great peace is obtained and pain and distress absolutely touch (man) not.
Ever and for ever more perform the service of that True Lord Master.
In the society of Saints, the mortal becomes pure and the noose of death is cut.
Make supplication before Him who is the bestower of bliss and the destroyer of dread.
He, to whom the Merciful Master shows His mercy, has his affairs adjusted forth with.
(The Lord) is spoken of as the greatest of the great and His seat the highest of the high.
God is without colour and mark. (I) cannot appraise (His) worth.
Have mercy on Nanak, O Lord! and bless his with Thy True Name.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
He, who meditates on the Name is happy; his face becomes bright.
He, who obtains the Name from the Perfect Guru, becomes renowned all the Words over.
That Unique True (Everlasting Lord) abides in the house (society) of the saints.5
My mind! contemplate the Lord God's Name.
The Name, thy helper, is ever with thee and shall save thee hereafter. Pause.
Of what avail are the greatness of the world?
When colour (pleasure) of worldly valuables is all fading. It shall disappear, O thoughtless. Fellow.
Perfect and supreme is he, in whose heart God abides.
Be thou dust of saints feet and renounce thy self-conceit.
Shed all(other) endeavours and clevernesses and fall at the feet of the Guru.
He alone receives the jewel of Name on whose brow good fortune is inscribed.
He, whom the Lord Himself gives, obtains the Name O Brethren!
He alone performs the service of the True Guru, who is rid of the affliction of ego.
The Guru has met Nanak and so all his sufferings are at an end.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
One Lord is the knower of man and He alone is his saviour.
He alone is the mind's Support and He alone the Mainstay of life.
In His refuge is all peace. He is the exalted Lord the Creator.
O my Mind! give up all (Other) efforts.
Each day think of the perfect Guru and embrace affection for the One Lord. Pause.
The One Lord is the Brother, the One is the real Friend and the One my mother and Father.
Within my mind is the support of the Unique Lord who has given me the soul and the body.
The Lord, who holds everything in His power, I may not forget Him within my mind.
The One Lord is within (thy) home (body) and the One without. he Himself is found within all the places.
Day in and day out, meditate on Him, who has made all the human and other beings.
By being imbued with the love of One God, sorrow and repentance visit man not.
There is but One Supreme Lord Master. There is no other.
The soul and body are all His, whatever pleases Him that comes to pass.
Through the accomplished Guru the mortal becomes perfect by meditating on that True Lord.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
Perfect and supreme are they, who fix their mind with the True Guru.
The Divine knowledge sprouts within the mind of those, unto whom the Lord Himself becomes kind.
They, who bear such a writ on their brow, receive God's Name.
My mind! do thou meditate on the One Name.
Thus shall spring the happiness of all the happiness and thou shalt go to God's Court, clad in robes of honour. Pause.
By performing the devotional service of the World-cherisher, the fear of birth and death is removed.
Man becomes pure in the society of the Guru and the Lord Himself nurtures him.
By beholding the light of the Guru, man is extremely delighted and his filth of coming (to) and going (from) (this world) is washed off.
That illimitable Lord is found in all the places.
God alone is the bestower of all. There is no other second.
By seeking His sanctuary man is saved. What Lord wishes to do that comes to pass.
Perfect and supreme are they in whose heart the Exalted Lord dwells.
Pure is their reputation, which is obvious all the world over.
They, who have meditated on my Lord, Nanak is a sacrifice unto them.6
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
On meeting the True Guru all my affliction is over and divine peace has come and acquired an abode within my mind.
By enshrining love for One Lord, my heart is illumined with Diving light.
By meeting the Guru my face has become clean and I have received what was pre-ordained for me.
By ever singing the praises of the Lord of the world and the True Name, I have become blotless.
Through Guru's word, O my Mind! the man obtains peace.
By performing the service of the perfect Guru, none goes empty handed.
The mind's desires are fulfilled, when man finds the treasure of the Name.
The knower of hearts is ever with thee. Do thou realise Him, the Creator.
By Guru's grace the face becomes clean. Giving of alms and bathing (at shrines) are included in the Name's meditation.
Their all ego is abandoned and their lust, wrath and avarice are also eliminated.
I have earned the gain and profit of God's Name and mine affairs stand adjusted.
By His grace the Lord has given me His Name and united me with Himself.
The Lord Himself has become merciful and my coming and going have ceased.
By relishing the Guru's World I have obtained an abode in the True mansion.
Showering His benediction, the Lord protects the pious person.
In this world and the next, clean become the faces of those, who heartily remember the excellences of the True Lord.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, they deliberate over God's attributes and are imbued with His infinite love.
Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto the Supreme Lord the Ocean of Comfort.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
If we meet the Perfect Guru, we obtain the Name Treasure.
My Master! show Thine mercy, so that we may meditate on the ambrosial Name.
Thus the agony of birth and death is annulled and our attention gets, easily fixed on the Lord.
Seek thou the sanctuary of the Lord, O my Mind!
Beside God, there is no other second. On His Name alone, do thou meditate. Pause.
His worth cannot be told (appraised). He is an unfathomable ocean of excellences.
Meeting with the society of saints, O very lucky Fellow purchase thou the True name.
Perform thou the service of the ocean of solace. He is the Over Lord's of the kings and emperors.
I have the sport of Lords lotus feet and know of no other place.
I lean on Thy prop, O my Limitless Lord! and live by Thine might.
Of the dishonoured, Thou art the honour, O Lord! I seed to blend with Thee.
Throughout twenty-four hours ponder and contemplate over God, the World-sustainer.
He preserves man's soul, body and wealth and mercifully protects his very life.
Thou Lofty Lord Master is man's pardoner. He washes off all his sins, O Nanak!
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
I have contracted love with that True Lord! he dies, comes and goes not.
By separating He separates not and is contained amongst all.
Of the meek He is the remover of pang and affliction and to His slave He bears true love.
Wondrous is the from of the Immaculate One. The Guru has caused me to meet Him, O my Mother!
O Brother! make that Lord thy friend.
'Accursed is the love and attachment of wealth. With it none is seen at ease. Pause.
The Lord is wise, beneficent tender hearted, pure, beautiful and infinite.
He is the companion, helper, exceedingly exalted, lofty, great and illimitable.
He is not known as young or old. Ever stable is His Court.
We obtain that, what we beg of Him. He is the Support of the supportless.
By seeing the Lord, the soul and body are rendered peaceful.
With single-mind meditation on One Lord, mind's misgiving is dispelled.
He is the treasury of excellences and ever fresh is His body and complete His gift.
For ever and aye meditate on God. Forget Him not by day and night.
The Lord of the world is the comrade of those, who are so predestined.
Unto Him I dedicate my body, mind, wealth and all and this very life (soul) of mine, I all sacrifice to Him.
Pervading God ever sees, hears and is just near He resides in every heart.
The Lord maintains (even) the ungrateful. He is ever the pardoner O Nanak!
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
Who has given thee soul, body and wealth, has established thee with all power light within thee.
Who has bedecked thee in the natural way, has established thee with all power light within thee.
Ever and ever meditate upon and keep clasped to thy heart and mind the Lord Master.
O my Soul! there is no other than God.
Ever remain under Lord's protection and no affliction shall overtake thee. Pause.
The jewels, wealth, pearls, gold and silver are all dust.
The Mother, father sons and kins are all false relation.
The perverse and impious beast understands not Him who created him.
Who is pervading within and without, Him he deems to be distant.
The desire is clinging to him and his heart is engrossed in pride and falsehood.
Crowds of mortals without devotion and the Name of God continue coming and going.
O Lord! the Creator mercifully preserve man and the other creatures.
There is no protector but One Lord. Very unfeeling (is) or (has become) death's myrmidon.
Nanak, show Thine mercy unto me, O God! so that I may not forget Thy Name.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
The man says, I have the beauteous body, mine is the wealth and empire and country are exclusively mine.
He may have sons, wife, many mistresses and may enjoy myriad of pleasures and raiments.
If God's Name abides not within his mind they are of no avail and account.
O My Soul! contemplate over the Name of Lord Guru.
Ever associate with the society of the Saints and fix thy mind on Guru's feet. Pause.
If good luck be recorded on the forehead, only then does man meditate on the Name-Treasure.
By being attached with Guru's feet all, the affairs become right.
Thus are annulled the aliment of ego and scepticism and the mortal neither comes nor goes.
Mix thou with the Saints' congregation and deem that thy ablution at the sixty-eight places of pilgrimage.
Like this thy soul, every life mind and body shall be reverdured and this is the true aim of life.8
Thou shalt gain glory here and obtain room in the next world.
The Lord Himself does and causes others to do. Everything is in His hands.
He Himself slays and revives. Within and without, He is with the mortal.
Nanak has sought the sanctuary of the Lord, who is the Master of all the bodies.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
They, unto whom the Guru becomes merciful, seek their Lord's protection.
By the instruction of the True Guru all the worldly entanglement are annulled.
The Name of the Omnipresent Lord has stuck in my mind and His ambrosial glance has exalted me.
O my Soul! take thou to the service of the True Guru.
Forget not the Lord even for an instant from thy mind. Then shall He shower His benediction on thee. Pause.
Ever sing the praises of the Lord of the world, who is the destroyer of demerits.
Without God's Name peace ensues not. By making various ostentations I have verified this.
By being tinged with the Lord's praises in equipoise the mortal crosses the world-ocean.
The merit of lakhs of pilgrimages, fastings and restraints is found in the dust of Saints' feet.
From whom dost thou hide thine evil deeds, since the ever person Lord is beholding thee.
My fully Filling Lord is pervading all the places.
True is His empire, true His fiat and truest of the true His seat.
True is the Omnipotence which he has created and true the World that He has fashioned.
Nanak, repeat the True Name, unto which I am for ever and ever a sacrifice.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
O ye very fortunate! make effort, meditate on God and earn the wealth of Name.
In the Society of saints, contemplate over God and wash off the filth of thine many births.
O my mind! take to the meditation of the Name of Pervading God.
Thou shalt enjoy the fruit of thy hearts desire and thy sorrow and suffering shall all depart. Pause.
I have seen with me the Lord, for seeking whom I assumed this body.
The Lord who is pervading the Water, earth and the space beholdeth (every one) with his Grace.
By enshrining affection for the True Lord, the soul and body become pure.
He who thinks of the feet of Lofty Lord, he is deemed to have performed all the worships and austerities.
The Name of God is like the Nectar, the Gem, the Ruby and the Pear.
By singing the praises of God, O slave Nanak! celestial beatitude, the essence of all the happiness is obtained.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
That is the religious book and that the good omen by which God's Name may be repeated.
The Guru has given me the wealth of Lord's Lotus Feet and I, the shelterless, have obtained a Shelter.
The true capital and true way of life consist in singing God's praises throughout the eight watches.
He, to whom the Lord shows mercy, meets Him He then dies comes and goes not.
O my Soul! ever meditated thou on God with single minded affection.
Thy Succour, who resides in every heart, is ever with thee. Pause.
How can I measure the extent of the happiness which ensues when I meditate on the Lord of the world?
The one who tastes the Name Nectar, gets satiated. His soul alone knows the relish of the Name Nectar.9
Through the society of the saints the Beloved Lord, the pardoner abides in one's mind.
He, who has served his Lord, is the emperor of kings of men (the emperors)
This is the time to utter the praises and excellences of God, by doing which the merit, of taking myriad of baths and ablutions at shrines, is obtained.
The meritorious tongue repeats Lord's praises. No charity equals it.
By casting His compassionate glance, the kind, Omnipotent and merciful Lord abides within man's mind and body.
My very life body and wealth are His, I am ever and ever a sacrifice unto Him.
The united one, whom the Creator has united with Himself, never separates.
The True Maker has shattered the shackles of His attendants.
Unheeding His merits and demerits, the Lord has put the erring on the right path.
Nanak has sought the sanctuary of Him, who is the support of all the hearts.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
Repeat the True Name, with (thy) tongue, so that (thine) mind and body may become pure.
Of thy mother, father and all kith and kin, none shall be of any avail to have thee without that God.
If the Lord shows His mercy, man forgets him not even for a moment.
O my Mind! serve thou the True Lord, till thou hast breath (life).
Without the True One, all else is false and shall finally perish. Pause.
My Master is pure. Without Him I cannot live.
Without my soul and body is very great hunger (desire) for God. Let some one Come and unite me with Him, O my Mother!
I have searched the four directions. Without the Spouse there is no other place of rest.
Make supplication before the Guru, who may unite thee with the Creator.
The Giver of (God's) Name is the True Guru whose Treasure is brimful.
For ever and aye praise Him whose limit and either end cannot be ascertained.
Sing thou the praises of the Nurturer, manifold are whose worderous plays.
Ever and ever meditate on God. This alone is the excellent wisdom.
Nanak, the Lord flavours sweet to the mind and body of him, who has good luck recorded on his brow.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
O Brethren! meeting the society of the holy persons, deliberate over the True Name.
For the soul blind (gather) thou the viaticum of the True Name which shall be with thee, here and here-after.
If the Lord looks with His favour, thou shalt obtain this (viaticum) from the perfect Guru.
He unto whom God becomes merciful becomes the recipient of His Grace.
My mind, none else is so great as the Guru.
I can think of no other place. The Guru alone can cause me to meet that True Lord. Pause.
He, who goes and beholds the Guru, obtains all the valuables.
O My Mother! Exceedingly lucky, are they, whose mind is attached with Guru's feet.
The Guru is the Donor, the Guru the Omnipotent Being and the Guru is contained amongst all.
The Guru is the Supreme Lord and the Transcendent Master. The Guru floats (saves) the drowning one.
With what mouth should I eulogize the Guru, who is capable of doing everything.
Ever stable remain the brows (men) on whom the Guru has put his hand.
The Guru has causes me to quaff ambrosial Name, the destroyer of birth and death.
I have served the Guru, the embodiment of Lord and the dispeller of dread and my agony is eliminated.0
The True Guru is the profound and unfathomable Ocean of Peace and the destroyer of sin.
He who has served his Guru for him there is no punishment of the death's myrmidon.
There is no one at par with the Guru. I have searched and seen the whole universe.
The True Guru has given the Name treasure and Nanak has thereby enshrined solace in him mind.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
People eat what they believe to be sweet (man enjoys worldly pleasures) but those turn out to be bitter in taste.
Absurd it is to contract affection with brothers and friends and to be engrossed in sins.
In vanishing they make no delay, without God's Name man is confounded in distress.
O my Soul! apply thyself to the True Guru's Service.
Whatever is seen, that shall perish. Abandon thou, O man thy mind's cleverness. Pause.
As the rabid dog runs and wanders about in the ten (all) directions,
similarly the greedy man heeds nothing and devours all what is eatable and not-eatable.
He, who is eatable in lust, anger and ego, takes birth again and again.
Mammon has spread out its net and in it has placed the bait.
The avaricious bird is snared and cannot escape, O my Mother!
Man knows (remembers) not Him, who created his and continues coming and going over and over again.
This world has been bewitched in various ways and good many devices.
He, whom the Omnipotent and Infinite Lord protects is saved.
Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto God's serfs, who are saved through God's affection.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
When a herdsman comes to the pasture land, of what avail is his making ostentatious displays over there?
When the time allowed is completed, thou must depart, (O herdsman!) Do thou take care of thy real hearth and home.
O my mind! sing the excellences of God and serve the True Guru with love.
Why takest thou pride on a trivial thing? Pause.
Like the night guest thou shalt be up to depart in the morn.
Why art thou bewitched of thy house hold? Everything is short-lived like orchard flowers.
Why sayest thou This is mind, that is mine, Seek the Lord who gave it to thee.
Thou must assuredly get up and depart and leave behind a hundred thousand and millions (of rupees).
Having wandered through eighty four lakhs of existences, thouhast obtained the scarcely procurable human life.
Nanak, remember thou the Name, for that day of departure is drawing near.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
As long as, Soul it's companion, is with the body so long it lives happily.
When the comrade gets up and depart then the body bride mingles with dust.
My mind has developed absence of worldly desires and has ambition to behold Lord's sight.
Blessed is that seat of Thine (O Master!). Pause.
As long as the soul spouse dwells in the house (body) every one says "Sir, sire".
When the soul spouse shall get up and depart no one shall care for thee then.
In parents home (this world) do thou serve thy Bridegroom and abide in peace in thy father -in-laws (the next world).
By meeting the Guru, learn discretion and pious conduct and sorrow shall never befall thee.
All shall go to their bridegroom's and all shall have ceremonial permanent departure after marriage.1
Nanak, blessed are the happy brides, who contract affection with their Bridegroom.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
The Unique Lord, who did create the Universe is the Designer of chances.
Meditate on Him, O my soul! who is the support of all.
On Guru's feet, do thou contemplate over within thy mind.
Lay aside all thy cleverness and enshrine affection for the True Name. Pause.
Distress, agony and fright shall not cling to thee if Guru's word be in thy mind.
By making millions of efforts, people have grown weary but without the Guru none has been saved.
By beholding (Guru's) sight the soul secures solace and all the sins depart.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who fall at Guru's feet.
In the congregation of Saint (Guru) the True Name of God comes to reside in (mortal) mind.
Very fortunate are they O Nanak! who have this love within their mind.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
Amass God's wealth, worship the True Guru and eschew all the sins.
He who hast make and adorned thee, remember His and thou shalt be saved.
O Man! repeat the Name of the One Infinite Lord.
He who gave thee life, soul and body is the Support of thy heart. Pause.
The world is intoxicated and engrossed in lust, wrath and egotism.
Do thou seek Saints' (Guru's) shelter fall at his feet so that thy misery and mental darkness be removed.
Do thou practise truth, contentment and mercy. The most excellent is this way of life.
He, whom the Formless Lord blesses renounces his self-conceit and becomes the dust of all.
Whatever extension of the world that is visible, that all is Thou (O Lord!).
Says Nanak, the Guru has dispelled my doubt and I deem (behold) the Lord all over.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
The entire world is engrossed in evil deeds and virtuous deeds.
Above both is the Saint of God. Hardly any one understand this.
The Lord is pervading everywhere. What should I say, hear Thou, O my master!
Thou art the Great and wise Omnipotent Lord. Pause.
He, who is in (susceptible to) self-pride and self-disgrace, is not the slave of God.
The impartial seer of reality O Saint! is rare one amongst millions.
People utter and cause to utter about Him and make (consider) this the praise of God.
Some rare Guru-ward is indeed above this prate.
Towards deliverance and bondage, he casts not a glance even in the least,
Nanak has obtained the gift of the dust of saints (Guru's) feet.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
On the reliance of Thine mercy O Dear! I have dallied in filial love.
I, Thine child, have make mistakes and untoward overtures. Thou, O God! art my father and mother.
Easy it is to utter and cause to utter.
But difficult it is to accept Thy Will. Pause.
I take pride on Thee for thou art my might and Know Thee as my own.
Thou the independent Father, Thou art With all and yet without all.
My Father! I know not which is Thy way.2
He immunes me from entanglements and posses love for me. O Saints!
The Lord has become Merciful and my coming and going have ended.
By meeting the Guru, Nanak has recognised the Supreme Lord.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
By meeting the pious persons, O Brother! I have clipped birth and death.
True Lord, my Spouse has become merciful and secured abode within my mind.
I have met the perfect True Guru and my entanglement has all ended.
My True Guru! I am a sacrifice unto Thee.
I am devoted unto Thy sight. Being mightily pleases, Thou hast granted me the immotalising Name. Pause.
Wise are the persons, who have served Thee With love.
The mortal is emancipated in the wake of those who have the Name Treasure in their mind.
None is as great a donor as the Guru Who has given me the gift of Divine Soul.
Acceptable is the advent of those, who meet the Guru with superb faith.
Being imbued with the True Lord, one secures the sitting place in lord's Court.
Greatness are in the Creator's hand. The mortal obtains them as pre-ordained.
True Lord is the Creator of the World and he is the Doer of every thing. True is the prop of the True Lord.
Repeat thou the Name of the Truest of the True. By repeating the True Name the discerning intellect is obtained.
Nanak lives by remembering the Unique Lord, who is contained amidst all.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
With love in the mind and body, adore the Lord incarnate Guru.
The True Guru is the bestoswer of very life and lends support to all.
Act up to the True Guru's instruction, this indeed is the true philosophy.
Without being imbued with the Society of saints, all attachment to wealth is as ashes.
My Friend! remember thou the Name of Lord God.
In the guild of the Guru God abides within one's mind and his service becomes fruitful. Pause.
The Guru is omnipotent and the Guru is Infinite. It is through the greatest good luck that his view is had.
Imperceptible and Immaculate is the Guru. None else is as great as the Guru.
The Guru is the Creator and Guru the Doer. It is through the Guru, that true glory is obtained.
Nothing is beyond (the jurisdiction of) the Guru. Whatever The Guru desires that comes to pass.
The Guru is the place or pilgrimage, Guru the Elysian Tree, and Guru the fulfiller of desire.
Guru the giver, grants God's Name, wherewith the entire world is saved.
The Guru is potent to do everything and the Guru is himself the formless Lord, The Guru is high, unfathomable and limitless.
Ineffable is the praise s of the Guru. What can a sayer say?
With (in the hand of) the True Guru are as many rewards as our mind desires.
He, who is so preordained, obtains such fruit from the Guru, who is the grantor of the wealth of the true Name.
By seeking the sanctuary of the True Guru, who shalt not die again.
The soul, body and breaths are Thine, O God! may Nanak never grow oblivious of Thee.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
Listen ye, O saintly persons! My brethren, thy release is through the True Name.
Adore ye, the feet of the Guru and deem God's Name your place of pilgrimage.3
Here after you shall be honoured in Lord's Court, where the place less obtain the place.
O Brother! the service of the True Guru alone is true.
When the True Guru is highly pleased, it is then that the Omnipresent, Unknowable and Inscrutable is obtained. Pause.
I am devoted unto the True Guru, who has given me the True Name.
Night and day I praise The True One, and of the True I sing the praises.
True is the viand and true the raiment of those, who repeat the True Name of the True Lord.
Whilst drawing berate and taking food I forget not the Guru, who by himself possesses an accredited personality.
None is seen to be as great as the Guru, so reflect over him through out the eight watches of the day.
If the Guru casts his merciful glance, then, one obtains the True name, the treasure of excellence.
The Guru and God are one and the Divine Guru is contained amongst all.
They who are pre-destined reflect over the Lord's Name.
Nanak has sought to refuge of the Guru, who dies, comes and goes not.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Sri Rag, First Guru. Eight stanzas.
By uttering and repeating God's Name I play upon my mind's instrument. The more I understand God the more I play upon it.
How great and at what place is He, for whom we play upon and sing?
The eulogists all of them, continue praising the Lord with affection.
O Sir! the Adorable Lord, is beyond reach and endless.
Sanctified is the Name and sanctified the seat of the True Cherisher. Pause
How great is Thine command cannot be known, O Lord! Nor any known, how to pen it down
Even though hundreds of poets were to assemble they cannot reach (describe) even a sesame of Thine greatness.
No one has found Thy worth. Every one narrates Thine glory as he has repeatedly heard.
The spiritual guides, prophets, divine pioneers, men of faith, good men, martyrs,
preachers, strivers, judges, moulvies and saints, and the reachers at Lord's Court,
they obtain more blessings if they continue reading Lord's praises.
He consults none when He builds nor does He consult any one when He demolishes, nor does He seek the counsel while giving and taking.
His omnipotence He Himself knows and He Himself does all the works.
With His glance, He beholds all, but He gives to him whom He is pleased with.
His place, name, and how great His Name is amongst other names, are not known.
How great is the place where my Sovereign resides?
No one can reach it. whom should I go to ask?
A race likes not another race, when He makes any one great.
In the hand of the great Lord are the greatness. He gives to him whom He pleases.
He regenerates mortal by His order and makes nor a moment's delay.
With the idea of obtaining, every one cries, "give me much more, much more".
How great should the Giver be called? He gives bounties beyond enumeration.
Nanak: O Lord! Thine store houses are brimful in every age, and never is there a deficiency in them.4
First Guru.
All are the wives of the Spouse and all make decorations for Him.
Evil (Cursed) is the red robe of those, who, instead of praying for His mercy, have come to reckon accounts with Him, (their Spouse).
Through hypocrisy His love is not obtained. The counterfeit gilding is ruinous.
Like this, venerable Lord, the Consort, enjoys the bride.
The good bride is pleasing to Thee, O Lord! By the Grace Thou decoratest her. Pause.
With Guru's Word she is decorated and her body and soul are with (at the disposal of) her Beloved.
With both the hands clasped, she stands waiting on Him and offers Him true supplication.
She is dyed in the love of her Darling and abides in the fear of the True One. Imbued with His affection she assumes True Colour.
The sweet-heart, who surrenders to the Name is said to be the hand maiden of her dear Spouse.
The true love sunders not, and she unites in the union of her True Lord.
With Guru's Word she is imbued and her mind is pierced through (with love). I am a sacrifice unto him.
The bride, who is absorbed in the True Guru, sits nor as a widow.
Her Beloved is an abode of essences, of ever fresh body and is Truthful. He dies not and is born not.
He ever enjoys His virtuous wife and casts His True Glance on her, as she abides by His will.
Such bride plaits the tresses of truth and makes Lord's love her raiment and ornamentation.
Dwelling (of the Lord) in the conscious she makes her sandal (make on the forehead) and the tenth gate her mansion.
She lights the lamp of the Word and has God's Name as her necklace.
Amongst women she is beautiful and on her brow she wears the jewel of Lord's love.
Her celebrity and wisdom are beauteous and true is her love for the Infinite Lord.
She knows no man except her Beloved. It is only the True Guru she enshrines love and affection for.
But how shall she, who is asleep during the dark night, pass her night without her Beloved?
Thine limbs shall burn and thy body shall and thy mind and wealth shall burn as well;
When the Husband enjoys not wife, then her youth passes away in vain.
Her Spouse is on the couch but the wife being asleep has no knowledge of Him.
While I sleep, my Beloved is awake. Whom should I go to consult?
Nanak, the True Guru has taught me Lord's love, has caused me to meet Him and I abide in His fear.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Thou, O Lord! art Thy own excellences and Thou Thyself utterest, hearest and ponderest over them.
Thou Thyself art, the Name jewel and its assayer and Thou Thyself art of infinite value.
Thou, O True Lord! art honour and glory and Thyself the giver there-of.
My honourable God! Thou art the Maker and Creator.
Save me as it pleases Thee, O God! and grant me the life of meditation. Pause.
Thou Thyself art the Pure gem and Thyself the colour of madder.
Thou Thyself art the pure pearl and Thyself the devotee and inter-cessor.
By the Word of the Guru, the Invisible One is praised and seen in every heart.
Thou Thyself art the ocean and the ship and Thyself this shore and thy yonder one.
My Omniscient Lord! Thou art the right path and Thy Name the navigator to ferry over.
Know that dread is for those who fear not the Lord. Without the Guru there is pitch darkness.
The Creator alone is seen to be Eternal. All others continue coming and going.
Thou, O Lord! art by Thyself Pure. Thou hast tied down and engaged others in secular pursuits.5
They, whom the Guru protects, are saved by cherishing love for the True Lord.
Through the Word man recognises the adorable Lord and is imbued in the True through the Guru's sermon.
Filth attaches not to the body of him, who has secured and abode in the True Home.
If the Lord casts His merciful glance the True Name is procured. Without the Name who is man's kinsman?
They, who have recognised the Truth remain comfortable the four ages throughout.
Having stilled their ego and desire they keep the True Name clasped to their heart.
The Name alone is the profit to be earned in this world. It is attained through the Guru given deliberation.
With the Capital of Truth, If the merchandise of the True Name is loaded, thus one always earns the profit.
By devotional meditation and true supplication man sits in Lord's True Court.
Man's account is settled with honour in the light of the Name of the Omnipresent Lord.
The Highest of the high the Lord is said to be. But He cannot be perceived by any one.
Wherever I see, there I see Thee alone! The True Guru has caused me to behold Thee.
Nanak, by divine insight, the mortal easily relishes the lord light within all.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
The fish did not pay attention to the net in the brackish and unfathomable sea.
Why did the very clever and beautiful fish have so much confidence?
Because of her doing (folly) she was caught. Death cannot be averted from over her head.
O Brother! do then deem death hovering over thy head like this.
As is the fish, so is the man. Death's noose falls over him, unaware. pause.
The entire world is bound by death. without the Guru, death is unchallengeable.
They, who are imbued with Truth and leave love of duality and sin are saved.
I am a sacrifice unto those, Who are found true at the True Court.
As the hawk and the net in hunter's hands are to the birds, (so is death to the mortals).
They, Whom the Guru preserves, are saved. The rest are ensnared with the bait.
Without God's Name, they are picked up and cast away friendless and comradeless.
God is said to be the Truest of the true, and True is the seat of the true Lord.
True meditation abides within the mind of those who obey the True One.
Pure are deemed the minds and mouths of those who through the Guru have obtained Divine Knowledge.
Make supplication before the True Guru that he may unite thee with the friend.
On meeting the friend, peace is obtained and myrmidons of death take poison and die.
I abide in the Name, and the Name has come to abide within my mind.
Without the Guru there is complete darkness and sans God's Name understanding is not gained.
By Guru's instruction division light shine and the mortal remains absorbed in true Lord's love.
Death enters not there and man's light blends with the supreme Light.
Thou art wise, thou the uniter of man with Thyself.
Under Guru's instruction praise Him who has no limit and has not this or that end.
Death reaches not there where there is the boundless word of the Guru.
By lord's fiat all are created and by his fiat they perform various functions.
Under his command they are in the power of death and under his command they are absorbed in the True God.
Nanak whatever pleases Him, that come to pass. Nothing is in the power of these creatures.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
If the mind is impure the body is impure the body is impure and impure the tongue.6
With false mouth man utters falsehood. How can he be pure?
Without the water of name (the soul) is not cleansed. the truth proceeds from the true One.
O Bride! what happiness is there without virtue.
The beloved will enjoy (them) with pleasure and relish, who feel peace in the affection of the True name. Pause.
If the Groom goes off the separated wife grieves,
like the fish which bewails (cries for pity) bitterly in scanty water.
When the spouse wills, He Himself favours His merciful Glance and the bride obtains peace.
With (in the company of) your female comrades and friend praise thy consort.
By beholding Him my body is beautiful, soul bewitched and I am imbrued with His love.
The beautiful wife who is bedecked with the Name and is with merit, enjoys her Groom.
The evil and impious bride is of no use to the beloved
She obtains peace neither at her parents(in this word) nor with in-laws(in the next world) and burns in falsehood and sin
Hard is the coming and going of her who is deserted and for gotten by her husband.
The beauteous wife of the husband for what sensuous pleasure she has been doomed
She who prattles (enter in to) useless wrangle is of no avail to the spouse.
Because of other relishes, she is discarded and obtains no shelter at her lord s door and mansion
The Brahmans read books but understand not the real meaning.
They instruct others and walk away themselves they trade in wealth
They wander about the world talking falsehood while they who abide by the name are the best.
Many are the Pandits and astrologers who deliberate over vedas.
They glorify disputes and strives and in controversies they continue coming and going.
Without the Guru they cannot be absolved of their action however much they may tell hear preach and expound.
All call themselves virtuous but I posses no virtue.
Happy is the bride who has God as her spouse. I, too, love that lord of mine.
Nanak it is through the name that union with God is effected and separation occurs no more.
Sri rag, First Guru.
Man may perform recitations austerities and self restraint and dwell at places of pilgrimage.
He may give donations and alms and do other good deeds but what does it avail him without the true being.
As he sows so does he reap without virtue the human life passes away in vain.
O young bride happiness is obtained by being a slave to virtue.
She who under Guru s instruction eschews demerits gets absorbed in the perfect Lord. pause.
Without capital the trader looks about in the four directions (in vain).
He understands not the real and the merchandise of God s Name remains undiscovered within his house's door.
Without the Name commodity great is the anguish and the false man is ruined by falsehood.
He, who thoughtfully assays (meditates) the jewel of Name day and night reaps brand news profits.
He finds the commodity in his home and departs after fulfilling his affairs.
Trade with God's traders and through the Guru deliberate over the Lord.
The Lord is obtained in the society of the saints, when Guru, the Uniter, unites man therewith.
He, within whose mind the infinite light of the Lord shines, meets Him and separates not again.
True is the seat of such person, who abides in Truth and bears love and affection to the True Lord.
They, who recognise their own self, find Lord's mansion in the good place of their home heart.
Imbued with the True Name, the True One is obtained.7
That Lord is known in the three worlds, True is the Name of the True Lord.
Very beauteous is the wife who knows her Beloved to be within herself.
Such bride is called to the palace and the Spouse enjoys her in love.
She is truly happy and virtuous wife, who is enamoured with the excellences of her darling Husband.
Going wrong and astray I ascend the plateau and having ascended the plateau I go up the mountain.
Having lost the way if I wander about in the forest etc; I shall not obtain the understanding (way) without the Guru.
If I walk about, forgetting God's Name I shall continue coming and going over and over again.
Go and inquire from the wayfarers, who having become Lord's slaves, walk His way.
They deem God as their Monarch and they are not stopped at the door of His palace.
Nanak the One Lord is pervading every where. There is no other second what-so-ever.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
From the Guru, the Pure One is known and the body and human frame become pure.
The Immaculate True Lord abides within the mind and He understands the heat's pang.
From Divine Knowledge extreme joy springs and death's arrow hits one not.
O Brother! by bating in the pure water of God's Name no filth shall remain attached to thee.
Thou alone art perfectly pure, O True Lord! all other places are filled with dirt. Pause.
God's palace is beauteous. The Creator has fashioned it.
Incomparable is the luster of the lamps of the Sun and the Moon. The infinite light of God is pervading the three worlds.
In the body are shops, the cities and the fortresses, wherein is the merchandise of the True Name to trade in.
The collyrium of Divine knowledge is the dread dispeller and it is through love that the Pure One is discerned.
The mortal comes to know all the hidden and the apparent, if he keeps his mind centered at One place.
If man finds such a True Guru then, he easily, causes him to meet the Lord.
As the attrition is put on the touchstone (to test the gold) Lord assays (the spiritual) life of His creatures) with love and attention.
The Counterfeit find not a place and the genuine are but into the treasury.
Dispel thy hope (desire) and anxiety; like this thy filth shall be washed away.
Every one craves for happiness and none asks for misery.
Immense anguish comes in the wake of pleasures but the self-willed understand it not.
They, who deem weal and woe alike and pierce their soul with Name, obtain Divine Solace.
The recitation of Brahma's Vedas and Words (works) of Vyas proclaim that the silent sages,
God's attendants and the strivers are imbued with the Name, the treasure of excellences.
They, who are dyed with the True Name, win I am ever a sacrifice unto them.
They, within whose mount Lord's Name is not, are brimful with pollution and remain filthy, the four ages through.
They who are bereft of Lord's love and devotion lose honour and their faces are blackened.
They, who have forgotten the Name, bewail defrauded by sin.
By seeking and searching I have found the Lord. Through Lord's fear I have met with His union.
By recognising his ownself man abides in his own home and his ego and desire depart.
Nanak, blotless and exonerated are they, who are imbued with the Name of God.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Hear thou O my deluded and demented mind! take to the Feet of the Guru.
Remember God and meditate on the Name, (by so doing) the god of death is afraid, and woe departs.
The unfortunate wife faces untold hardships, How can her Spouse remain for ever with her?8
O Brother! I have no other place.
The Guru has given me the Treasure of the Wealth of God's Name, I am devout unto him. Pause.
By Guru's instruction comes honour. Hail unto him, (the Guru) I associate with him.
Without Him I cannot live even for a moment. Without His Name I die.
May, I the blind, forget not God's Name. Placed under His protection I shall reach my Home.
The disciples, whose religious guide is blind, find no place.
Sans the True Guru Lord's Name is not obtained. Without the Name what is the aim of human Life?
Man regrets his coming and going like the crow visiting a deserted house.
Without the Name the body wirthes in pain like the wall of nitrous salts.
As long as truth enters not man's mind till then he gains not Lord's presence.
Being imbued with the Name in his home, mortal obtains eternal status of salvation.
I make inquiry from my Guru and do the deeds according to his directive.
The pain of self-conceit is burnt down, if the praises of the Lord abide in man's mind.
It is through Divine knowledge that union is accomplished and the mortal meets with the Immortal True.
They, who are imbued with the Divine Word are pure. They renounce lust, wrath and pride.
For ever and aye, they sing the praises of the Name and keep God clasped to their heart.
Within our mind why should we forget Him who is the mainstay of all the beings?
He who dies of the Divine word gets immune from death and dies not, again a second time.
From Guru's instruction love for God's Name is obtained and the Lord is attained to.
Without Lord's Name the world has gone astray and suffers transmigration over and over again.
Every one lauds himself and deems himself the greatest of the great.
Without the Guru, One's ownself cannot be known. By merely saying and hearing, what can be achieved?
Nanak, if man recognises the Lord, he takes not pride on himself.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Without her Groom the adornment and youth of the bride are useless and ruinous.
She enjoys not the pleasure of the bed of her Spouse without whom absurd is her ornamentation.
The unfortunate bride faces great misery. Her Spouse reposes not on the couch of her home.
O my mind! meditate on the Pervading God to obtain peace.
Without the Guru Lord's love is not gained. Happiness ensues by obtaining the Lord's Name. Pause.
In Guru's service comfort is procured and with the ornamentation of Divine Knowledge the bride comes to have God as her Groom.
Through deep love and affection the wife, assuredly, enjoys the stead of her Beloved.
It is through the Guru that the bride comes to have acquaintance with her Lord. One meeting the Guru she acquires good conduct.
Through Truth O lady! meet thou thy Spouse and by enshrining affection for Him, thou shalt be enamoured of thy Beloved.
Her worth cannot be told (appraised.). With the True Lord her soul and body shall bloom.
The Husband loved bride, who is sanctified by the True Name, obtains God, as her Spouse, in her very home.
If she suppresses her ego within the mind, then, does the Groom enjoy the bride.
Like the threaded pearls forming a necklace round the neck the two are woven into one texture.
Peace ensues by seeing the support of the Name in the society of the saints, through the Guru.
In a moment man is born, in a moment he dies, in a moment he comes and in a moment he goes.
Death agonises not him who recognises the Word and merges in it.9
The unweighable Lord cannot be weighted. By mere talk He cannot be attained to.
After having god recorded their maintenance, the merchants and traders have come in this world.
They, who practise truth and abide by God's will, reap the profit.
By the merchandise of truth, they meet the Guru, who has not even an iota of avarice.
With the balance of Truth and the weight of Truth the Exalted Guru measures and causes others to measure.
Hope and desire, which allure all, are stilled by the Guru, whose word is True.
He Himself weights in the scale. Perfect is the weigthing of the perfect One.
By mere talk and say we are not saved nor by reading loads of books.
Without God's service and affection, purity of the body is not procured.
If man forgets not the Name, O Nanak! the Guru shall unite him with the Creator.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
If we meet the Perfect True Guru, we obtain the jewel of Thought.
By tendering our mind unto our Guru, we attain to the love of the omnipresent Lord.
We obtain the wealth of Salvation, which is the obliterator of demerits,
O Brother! without the Guru, Divine Awakening is not gained.
Let some one go and inquire from Brahma, Narad and Vyas, the writer of Vedas. Pause.
Know that from Guru's Word, Divine comprehension and meditation are obtained and that He makes man utter the Unutterable One.
The Guru is the green, fruit bearing tree with abundant shade.
The rubies, jewels and emeralds these are in Guru's treasure.
From the Guru's storehouse do we receive the love of the immaculate Name.
Through the perfect grace of the infinite Lord we amass the merchandise of the True Name.
The True Guru is the giver of peace, the eraser of anguish and the destroyer of the demon of evil deeds.
The fearful ocean of the world is arduous and dreadful. It has neither a shore nor the yonder end.
It has no boat no raft, no pole and no boatsman.
The True Guru is the only ship on the fearful sea whose merciful glance takes men across.
If I forget the Beloved, for an instant, suffering overtakes me and comfort departs.
Burnt be that flammable tongue, which repeats not God's Name with love.
When the pitcher (body) bursts man writhes in great pain and grieves when caught by death's minister.
Men have departed crying "me my and mine" and their bodies, wealth and wives accompanied them not.
Without the Name, riches are in vain, One loses his way deluded by mammon.
Through the Guru serve the True Lord and describe the Ineffable Master.
Man comes(is born), goes (dies) and is goaded into existences. He acts in accordance with his past actions.
How can the pre-natal writ be obliterated, when the writ is written under Lord's Will?
Without God's Name the mortal cannot be saved. By Guru's instruction he unites with Lord's union.
I have no one to call my own without Him, to whom belong my soul and life.
Burnt to ashes be thou, O my ego and worldly love! May my avarice and egotism be consigned to fire.
Nanak, by deliberating over the Name the Lord Treasure of Excellences, is obtained.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
O my mind! entertain such an affection for God as the lotus has for water.
It is dashed down with the waves but still it blooms in love.
In water God did create the creatures,. their death occurs without water.0
O My Mind! how shalt thou be delivered without love?
In the hearts of the pious persons the Lord dwells. To them He gives the treasure of His devotional service. Pause.
O my mind! enshrine such love for God as the fish has for water.
The more the water, the more the happiness and the greater the peace of mind, body and frame (the fish feels).
Without water she cannot live even for an instant. The Lord knows the suffering of her mind.
O my mind! cherish such an affection for God as the pied-cuckoo has for the rain.
Of what avail are the brimful tanks and the green earth to it, if a rain drop falls nor into it's mouth?
If God's grace dawns, he shall have the raindrops, otherwise in view of his past actions he gives his head.
O my mind! such love do thou bear for God as the water bears for milk.
The water added to milk itself bears the heat and allows not the milk to be consumed.
God Himself unites the separated and grants true greatness.
O my mind! hear such love of God as the sheldrake has for the sun.
Even for an instant and a moment she slumbers not thou has no sleep. (The sun, though) far off, she deems near at hand.
Understanding comes not to the perverse person. Unto the pious person the Lord is ever close at hand.
The Self-willed make calculations. But it is only what the Creator does that comes to pass.
His worth cannot be ascertained even though all men may desire it.
By guru's instruction it is however revealed. By meeting the True Lord peace is obtained.
If the True Guru be met the true love shall bot sunder.
By obtaining the wealth of Divine Knowledge the insight into the three worlds is acquired.
If one becomes a customer of merit he forgets not the pure Name then.
The birds which pecked at the place of the pool have played and gone away.
In a moment or a trice the mortal is to depart. His joyful play is for to-day or to-tomorrow.
He whom Thou unitest, unites with Thee and takes his place in the True arena.
Without the Guru love springs not and filth of ego departs not.
He who recognises God within himself and is pierced through with His Name is satisfied.
When man understands his own-self through the Guru what more is left for him to do or to get done?
Why speak of uniting with the Lord those who are already in union with Him. They are satisfied by receiving the Name.
The perverse obtain not understanding. Separated from God they bear strokes.
For Nanak, except of Lord's mansion's gate, there is no other second shelter.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
The led-astray self-willed person goes amiss. The deluded one has no place of rest.
Without the Guru none shows the right path. The spiritually blind continue coming and going.
Having lost the wealth of Divine Comprehension, man departs defrauded and pillaged.
O Brother! mammon deludes with it's illusion.
The discarded bride who is deluded by doubt, rests not in the embrace of her Beloved. Pause.
The mistaken bride wanders in foreign lands and it is the mistaken one, who forsaking her home, stirs out.
In suspicion her mind wavers, and missing the path she ascends the table lands and mountains.
How can she, who is separated from the primal Being meet Him? Duped by egotism, she bewails.1
By granting the love for the delicious Name of God, the separated, Guru unites with the Lord.
With Truth and Divine knowledge and the prop of god's praises and Name, man obtains great esteem.
Save me, O Spouse! as it pleases Thee. Except Thee, who else is mine?
By continually reading books men commit mistake and by wearing religious garbs they take great pride.
What does it avail man to bath at a place of pilgrimage, when the filth of self-conceit is within his mind.
Who except the Guru can explain that God, the King and Emperor, abides within man's mind.
By reflecting over the reality, through the Guru, the wealth of Lord's love is attained to.
By decorating herself with the Guru's World, the bride has annulled her self-conceit.
Through infinite love for the great Lord, she finds the Beloved in her own home.
In Guru's service and employment, the mind becomes pure and the mortal attains peace.
When the Guru's Word abides in the mind, egotism is eliminated from within.
The wealth of the Name is acquired and the mind ever gathers the Gain.
If God's Grace is upon us, it is then that we obtain the Name. Of ourselves we cannot find it.
Eradicate self-conceit from within thee and remain attached to the Guru's feet.
By Being imbued with the True Name, the True lord is obtained.
All are apt to commit an error. He Guru and the Creator alone are infallible.
He who has chastened his mind through Guru's instruction comes to embrace Lord's love.
He, whom the Infinite lord gives this gift, forgets not the True Name O Nanak!
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Because of the love of sons, relations and house-wife man is engrossed in the desire for fascinating mammon.
The world is beguiled by riches, youth avarice, covetousness and egotism.
The intoxicating herb, of secular love has killed me, so does the remaining world fare,(at its hands.)
O my Beloved! I have no one but Thee.
Without Thee, nothing else is pleasing to me. By loving Thee I am at peace. Pause.
Having acquired contentment by Guru's instruction, I praise God's Name with love!
What so ever is seen, that shall depart. Have not affections for the false show.
Thou hast come like a traveler on the way. See that your company is passing away each day.
Many a man preach sermons, but without the Guru, Divine Understanding is not obtained.
If one receives the glory of the Name, he is imbued with Truth and gains honour.
They, who are pleasing to Thee, are good. (In oneself) none is counterfeit or genuine.
By taking the protection of the Guru, man is saved. Counterfeit is the capital of the wayward persons.
The eight metals of the King are fashioned (into coins) to His order and pleasure.
The Assayer Himself assays the coins, and consigns the genuine to His treasury.
Thy worth cannot be ascertained. I have seen and tested everything.
By saying His fathom cannot be fond. If man abides in Truth, He obtains honour.
By Guru's instructions, O lord! I praise Thee. There is no other way to describe Thy worth.
The body which likes not the Name that body is infested with pride and strife.
Without the Guru, Divine Comprehensions, is not obtained, other relishes are but poison.
Without virtue nothing avails. Insipid is the taste of riches.
In hope the man is born, and in hope he partakes of the savoury and citreous dainties.
Trapped by desire, He is goaded on and bears blows on his face again and again.
Bound down by sin, he is struck and its released by remembering the Name under Guru's instruction.2
At all the places Thou alone art, O Master! save me as it pleases Thee.
Under Guru's instruction, the True Name abides in man's mind. In the company of the Name he wins sublime honour.
Having eradicated the disease of egotism, he repeats the True Name of the True lord.
Thou, O Lord! art contained in firmament, nether region and the three worlds.
Thou Thyself art devotion and affection and Thyself unitest in Thy union.
May Nanak never forget Thy Name, O Lord! As it pleases Thee, so does Thy Will work.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
With Pervading Lord's Name, my mind is pierced through. What else should I reflect upon?
By fixing attention on the Divine word happiness is procured. Imbued with the Lord, sublime joy emanates.
Preserve me as it pleases Thee, O God! Thy Name is my mainstay.
O My Soul! just is the will of the Master.
Contract love with Him who has made and adorned thy body and soul. Pause.
Were I to cut my body into an atom weight pieces and burn it in fire.
If I make my body and soul into fuel, and night and day, burn them in fire,
and if I perform lakhs and millions of religious rites, all these becomes not equal to God's Name.
If my body be got frozen in the (snow of) Himalayas; even then soul shall not be free from disease.
Were a saw to be applied to my head and my body be cut in two halves,
These equal not God's Name. All this I have seen by test and trial.
Were I to give in alms castles of gold, and give in charity good many fine horses and excellent elephants,
and were I to donate land and many cows, even then pride and ego will remain within my mind.
Pervading God's Name has penetrated my mind. This is the true gift the Guru has given me.
How many men of perseverance and intelligence there are and how many there are contemplators of Vedas?
How many entanglements there are for the soul it is only through the Guru that the gate of emancipation is obtained.
(As) everything is underneath Truth, the living with the Truth is superior to all.
Call every one exalted, none appears to be base.
The One Lord has fashioned the pots, and One Light is pervading the three worlds.
Through God's grace Truth is attained to. None can efface the primordial gift.
When a saint meets a saint, through the love of the Guru, he obtains contentment.
If man merges in the True Guru, he comes to reflect over the discourse of the Ineffable Lord.
By quaffing Nectar he is satisfied and goes to God's Court, clad in robe of honour.
The flute resounds night and day within all the hearts which bear sublime love to God's Name.
Rare are they who procure understanding by admonishing their soul, through the Guru.
Nanak! they who forget not God's Name and act according to Guru's instruction are delivered.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
We see painted mansions with white-washed and beautiful doors.
They were constructed to give pleasure to the mind. But all this is love and attachment of mammon.
The inner-self is empty without Lord's love. The body shall crumble down into a heap of ashes.
O Brother! the body and wealth shall not accompany thee.
Pervading Lord's Name is the pure Wealth. That Lord gives this gift, through the Guru. Pause.
Lord's Name is Immaculate Wealth, only if the Giver were to give it to man.
Whose friend is the great Creator he is not questioned hereafter.
If God Himself delivers man. he is delivered for He Himself is the pardoner.3
The perverse person deems the daughters, sons and relatives to be his own.
He is pleased on beholding his wife. But they bring weal coupled with woe.
The pious persons are imbued with God's Name and day and night they enjoy Lord's elixir.
The mind of the unstable and wavering infidel wanders in quest of transitory wealth.
Men ruin themselves by their search without while the Thing is in the sacred place of their home.
The pious receive it in their lap, whilst the perverse miss it through ego.
O vicious mammon worshipper! recognise thy own origin.
This body is made from blood and semen and shall be taken (consigned) to fire.
According to the true mark on the brow (fate) the body is in the power of breath.
Everyone asks for long life and no one wishes to die.
Comfortable life is said to be his within that Lord abides, through the Guru.
Of what account are they, who are without the Name and who therefore obtain not the sight of the Guru and God.
As a man goes astray in dream at night, till his sleep lasts;
so does amiss the mortal within whose heart is ego and love of duality and who is in the power of the mammon serpent.
Through Guru's instruction, does mortal realise and see that this world is but a dream.
As fire is quenched with water as the baby is satiated with mother's milk.
As lotus exists not without water, and as the fish perishes sans water;
So does Nanak live by singing God's praises and obtaining Lord's elixir through the Guru.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
I am terrified on beholding the terrible mountain in my father's home (this world)
High and difficult to ascend is the mountain, No ladder is there which will reach it.
Through the Guru, I have recognised the Mountain within me. The Guru has united me with Him and I am saved.
O Brother! the fearful world-ocean is arduous and awe-inspiring.
By his pleasure the Perfect True Guru has met me and by granting God's Name he has delivered me. Pause.
If I say, "I am to go and depart", it will not avail me. If however I really realise that I am apt to depart, if will.
Who-so-ever is come, he shall go, only the Sublime Guru and the Creator are Eternal.
Ever eulogise the True One and enshrine affection for His True abode.
The beautiful gate-ways, houses, palace and thousands of solidly built forts;
these go not with any one. With them, the fools get distracted and bothered and finally die.
these go not with any one. With them, the fools get distracted and bothered and finally die.
Man may amass gold and silver but wealth is an entangling net.
He may proclaim his authority, by beat of drum in the whole world but without the Name death stands over his head.
When the body falls, the life's play is over. What shall be the condition of evil-doers then?
The husband delights on beholding his sons and his wife on the couch.
He applies essence of aloe wood and sandal and bedecks himself with beautiful clothes.
Leaving his hearth and home he depart and dust mixes with dust.
He may be called a chief, an emperor, a king, a governor or a Lord.
He may be styled a headman or a duke, but all this is burning and igniting with egotism.
The perverse person has forgotten God's Name. He is like a reed burnt with jungle fire.4
Who so ever is come in this world he is awfully infested with pride and is bound to depart.
The entire world is a chamber of lampblack. the body, soul and human Frame are all blackened therewith.
They, whom the Guru preserves are pure and with God's Name, extinguish the fire of desires.
Nanak, man swims across with the True Name of the king over the head of kings.
May I not forget God's Name, I have purchased the jewel of God's Name.
The wayward putrefy and die in the terrible ocean (world) and the Guru-wards cross the unfathomable ocean.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Making it an halting place, the mortal sits at home but he ever has the lurking sense to depart.
If the mortals were to remain ever stable, then alone, it could be deemed to be a permanent place of rest.
What king of halting station is this world.
Tie up the viaticum of doing deeds of faith and remain attached to the Lord's Name. Pause.
The Yogi squats in devotional posture and the Mullah sits at a place of rest.
The Brahmans recite books and the men of miracles sit in God's temples.
The demigods, perfect-persons, worshippers, of Shiva, Heavenly, Musician, silent sages, saint, religious instructors, spiritual guides and commanders,
have all left stage by stage, and others too are under orders of departure.
The Kings, chiefs, angles and nobles have marched away in succession.
The mortal must march away in a moment or two. O My! heart understand that thou, too, art about to reach there.
In Divine hymns it is so described. Only the rare understand this.
Nanak makes a supplication. The Lord is contained is water, dry-land, nether-region and firmament.
He is the unseen, inscrutable inaccessible, omnipotent and bounteous Creator.
The entire world is subject to coming and going. The Merciful Lord alone is permanent.
Call him permanent whose head bears not a writ of destiny.
The sky and earth shall pass away. Ever stable is He alone.
The day and the sun shall depart, the night and the moon shall vanish and hundreds of thousands of stars shall disappear.
He alone is eternal. Nanak tells the truth.
Seventeen ashtpadies of the first Guru.
Sri Rag, Third Guru. Eight Stanzas.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
By the Guru's grace God's meditation is embraced. Without the Guru, Lord's devotional service is not performed.
Any one, who merge his ownself in the Guru then, becomes pure by understanding the Lord.
True is the honourable Lord and True is his Gurbani. It is through the Word that union with God is effected.
O Brother! what for has the mortal, bereft of Lord's service and meditation, come into this world?
He has not served the Perfect Guru and has wasted his life in vain. Pause.
God, the bestower is Himself the life of the world and granting pardon, Himself unites man with Him ownself.
What are these poor living beings? what can they say and tell?
To the saint He Himself grants glory and Himself yokes to His service.5
On beholding thy kith and kin, thou art enticed by their love but they go not with thee at thy departure.
By serving the True Guru I have obtained the treasure of excellence and Its worth cannot be appraised.
The venerable Lord God is my Friend and at the last moment shall be my Succourer.
Beneficent Lord, the life of world, is in the parents home (this world). Ignoring Him the infidel has lost his honour.
Sans the True Guru, none knows the way to God. The blind find no place of rest.
If God the giver of peace dwells not in man's mind, he departs regretting at the end.
Under Guru's instruction in my father's house (in this world) I have caused to dwell within my mind generous Lord the life of the universe.
He, who ever meditates on the Lord, day and night, annuls his ego and worldly love.
He, then becomes like Him with whom he is imbued and verily gets absorbed in the True Being.
By His grace God blesses man with His love and he ponders through Guru's word.
By serving the True Guru spring peace and poise and one's ego and desire are stilled.
God the giver of virtue, ever abides within the mind of him who keeps the Truth clasped to his heart.
Eternally immaculate is my Lord with pure mind He is procured.
If the treasure of God's Name abides in the mind one's ego and sorrow are all eliminated.
The True Guru has preached unto me the Lord's Name, I am ever a sacrifice unto him.
Without the Guru self-conceit is not annulled. Within his mind and heart one may say or cause to be said anything.
Reverend God is the Lover of His saints and the Giver of Peace. By His grace he abides in man's mind.
Nanak the Lord blesses man with sublime awakening and Himself grants him honour and glory through the Guru.
Sri Rag Third Guru.
The rod of the angel of death smites those who go about their business in pride.
They who serve the True Guru and contract affection with the Lord are delivered.
O My soul! through the Guru, meditate on Lord's Name.
They who are so pre-ordained by God the Creator by Guru's instruction get absorbed in the name. pause.
Without the True Guru one acquires not faith nor does he embrace love for the name.
He obtains not peace even in dream and sleeps and dies in pain.
If he greatly longs for Lord God and utters His Name too his past actions cannot be erased.
The saints submit to God's will; such saints are accepted at his door.
The Guru firmly installs God's Name with love but without His grace the name cannot be attained to.
Through the poisonous plant be irrigated with Nectar a hundred times still it shall quickly bear poisonous fruits.
Truthful and pure are the persons who bear love to the True Guru.
They practise True Guru's will and shed the poison of ego and evil.
By no effort through mind's obstinacy one can be delivered. Go and thoroughly study the Simirtis and Shashtras.
By meeting the society of saints and acting up to Guru's instruction the mortal is saved.
God's Name is the treasure of excellences which has no limit this or that end.
The Guruwards to whom the Creator shows mercy look beauteous.
Nanak the Lord alone is the donour there is no other second.
By Guru's grace the Lord is obtained and it is through good luck that the Guru is met.6
Sri Rag Third Guru.
With Guru's love in the heart the beauteous bird on the tree pecks at truth.
It drinks God's Nectar abides in celestial bliss and flies not nor comes and goes.
It obtains dwelling in its own home and is absorbed in Lord God's Name.
O My Soul! do thou perform Guru's service.
If thou actest in accordance with Guru's will then thou shalt remain merged in God's Name night and day. Pause.
The birds of the beautiful trees fly and go in four directions.
The more they fly (up) the more they suffer. They ever burn and bewail.
Without the Guru they behold not God's mansion nor obtain the ambrosial fruit.
The true Sikh of the Guru is like God's ever green tree. He is automatically blessed with the love of the True Lord.
He lops off the three branches (qualities) and embraces love for One Word.
God's Name alone is the ambrosial fruit. He Himself gives it to be eaten.
The perverse get dried up standing. They have no fruit or shadow.
Sit not near them they have no home or village.
They are ever cut down and burnt. They have neither Word nor God's Name.
Men act according to Lord's command and wander in accordance with their previous actions.
By God's flat they behold His sight and whither He sends them thither they go.
By his order Lord God abides in man's mind and by His order he is absorbed in Truth.
The ignorant wretches know not Lord's will and go amiss in error.
With mind's obstinacy they go about their business and are disgraced for ever and aye.
They gather not inner peace and embrace not love for the True Lord.
Beauteous are the faces of Guru's slaves, who bear love and affection to the Guru.
Theirs is the genuine worship they are imbued with Truth and at the True Door they are found true.
Acceptable (blest) is the advent (birth) of those they save their entire lineage.
Every one does the deeds under Lord's eye. None is beyond His glance.
As is the gracious glance with which the True Lord beholds the man so does he become.
Nanak, the glorious greatness of the Name of God is obtained by His mercy.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
The Guruwards dwell on the Name and the selfwards obtain not understanding.
Ever-bright are the countenances of the Guruwards. God has come to dwell within their mind.
Through Divine understanding they obtain celestial peace and through Divine understanding they remain absorbed in the Lord.
O Brother! be thou the slave of God's slaves.
Guru's service is Guru's worship. Hardly any one obtains it. Pause.
If the happy bride acts according to the Will of the True Guru she shall ever enjoy her Husband.
To the eternal and immovable spouse she attains. He neither dies nor goes.
United with the Word she separates not rather sinks into the lap of her Beloved.
The Lord is immaculate and exceedingly effulgent. Without the Guru He is not obtained.
By reading scriptures one understands Him not. The pretenders have gone astray in doubt.
By Guru's instruction immortal God is attained to and the tongue remains permeated with Lord's elixir.7
By Guru's instruction one effortlessly sheds one's love of mammon.
Without the Name the world wanders in agony. The mammon has eaten-up the wayward.
Through the Word one meditates on the Name and through the word he gets absorbed in the True One.
The man of miracles roam about misled by mammon and they embrace not contemplation in sublime love.
Mammon is pervading the three worlds and is greatly clinging to the mortals.
Without the Guru, emancipation is not gained nor do double mindedness and secular love depart.
Whom do men call mammon? What work does mammon do?
In woe and weal mammon has enchained this mortal and caused him to go about his business in ego.
Without Divine Word, doubt is not dispelled nor does pride depart from within.
Without love Lord's service cannot be performed, and without the Name one becomes not acceptable.
With the Name ego is stilled and mammon's illusion departs.
Through the Guru, man easily obtains the wealth of God's Name.
Sans the Guru, virtues shine not and sans virtues Lord's devotional service cannot be performed.
That Lord easily meets the mortal, within whose mind the Name of God, the lover of devotion abides.
Nanak, through the Word do thou praise God. By His grace, is He obtained.
Sri Rag. Third Guru.
Attachment of mammon is the creation of my Master, and He Himself misleads man into an illusion.
The self-willed do misleads and understand not. They lose their life in vain.
Gurbani is the Divine Light in this world. Through God's grace does it come to abide is mortal's mind.
O Man! meditate thou on the Name so that thou may obtain peace.
By eulogising the perfect Guru, that Lord easily meets the man. Pause.
By fixing attention on God's feet man's doubt departs and fear flees.
By practising the Name through the Guru, God comes and dwells within the mind.
Through truth, man merges in his real Self in his home, and death's myrmidon can devour him not.
Nam Dev, the calico-printer and Kabir, the weaver, obtained salvation from the perfect Guru.
By recognising His Name they became the knowers of God and lost their ego and caste
Demigods and men sing their hymns. None can erase them, O Brother!
(Prahlad), the demon's son, read not of religious rites and austerities, for he knew not duality.
On meeting the True Guru, he become pure, and uttered God's Name night and day.
He read only of One God, realised but One Name and knew no other second.
The followers of six schools of philosophy (the Shastras) Yogis and solitarians have gone astray in doubt, without the Guru.
If they serve the True Guru, then alone, do they find salvation and way to the Lord and imbibe reverend God in their minds.
With the True Gurbani their mind is fixed and their coming and going cease.
By reading and studying the Brahmas set afoot controversies, and without the Guru they go amiss in scepticism.
They go round in the circuit of eight-four lakhs of existences and sans the Name obtain not salvation.
When they remember the Name and when the True Guru unites them with Lord's union, then do they attain to emanicipation.8
When by virtue of good faith the True Guru meets, the Name of God emanates in the saints' congregation.
I offer my soul and body, give up my self-conceit and act according to True Guru's will.
I am ever a sacrifice unto my Guru who attaches my soul with the Lord.
He is a Brahman who knows the Lord and is imbued with the love of God.
The Lord abides near within the hearts of all. Hardly any one knows Him through the Guru.
Nanak by God's Name one receives honour, and by Gurbani he recognises the Lord.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
All long for the state of Equipoise but without the Guru it cannot be obtained.
The Pandits and astrologers have grown weary of extensive reading and the sectarians go amiss in scepticism.
If the Lord of will showers His benediction the state of Poise is attained by meeting the Guru.
O Brother! without the Guru, no Equipoise can be obtained.
It is from the Divine Word that Poise proceeds and that True God is obtained. Pause.
What is sung in Divine comprehension becomes acceptable. Without divine comprehension the recitation is in vain.
It is by Divine knowledge that devotion emanates and by Divine knowledge love of God and detachment from the world are produced.
From Divine knowledge bliss and peace ensue and without Divine knowledge the life is in vain.
In celestial repose, ever and ever, thou praise the Lord and in celestial repose thou embrace trance.
In Divine repose, mortal utters God's praises and lovingly performs His service.
Through the Word God dwells in the mind and the tongue tastes God's Nectar.
By entering the sanctuary of the True One, death is easily destroyed.
If the mortal practises the True way of life, God's Name easily abides in his mind.
Exceedingly fortunate are they who have found God and easily remain absorbed in Him.
In Maya (wordly attachment) mental equilibrium springs not. The wordly attachment produces duality.
The wayward perform religious rites but they burnt down by self-conceitedness.
Their birth and death cease not. They come and go again and again.
In three dispositions Equipoise is not obtained. The three modes lead astray the mortal in doubt.
What do reading, studying, and talking avail a man he misses the very Origin?
In the fourth state there is Spiritual Bliss and the Guruwards obtain it in their sheet.
In the Name of the attributeless Lord there is treasure. Through Divine comprehension Knowledge is obtained.
The virtuous, praise God saying "True is the reputation of the True One".
The Lord unites even the stayers. It is through the Name that union is accomplished.
Without Divine Knowledge all are blind. The love of mammon is pitch darkness.
Through Divine Knowledge understanding of the Infinite True Lord is obtained.
Himself granting pardon the Perfect Guru unites man with the Creator.
Through Equipoise the Unseen, Fearless, Luminous and Formless Lord is recognised.
Of all the beings, there is but One Bestower. The Luminous Lord is the blender of man's light with Himself.
By means of the Perfect Word, praise thou the Lord, who has no limit and this or that end.
The Wise in God have Lord's Name as their wealth and through poise do they have traffic with Him.
By night and day, they receive the profit of God's name whose treasures are brimful and inexhaustible.9
Nanak, when the Giver gives there occurs no deficiency.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
By meeting the Sat Guru one is not cast to the round and his pain of birth and death is removed.
Through perfect Guru's word entire understanding is gained, and man remains absorbed in God's Name.
O my mind! fix thy attention with (on) the True Guru.
The immaculate and ever fresh Name of Itself, comes and abides within the saints' mind. Pause.
O venerable God! keep me in Thine sanctuary, where -in I shall live as Thou shalt keep me.
Through Guru's Word the pious person remains dead in life and thus swims across the dreadful ocean of the world.
By great good fortune man receives the Name and by Guru's wisdom, enshrined in Gurbani, he looks beauteous.
Lord, the Creator, Himself dwells in his mind, and he remains absorbed in celestial beatitude.
Some egocentrics like not Lord's Name. Loaded with chains they are goaded into species.
They return after repeatedly wandering in eight-four lakhs of existences and waste their life in vain.
Within the mind of His devotees there is bliss. They are imbued with the love of the True Lord.
Night and day, they the Pure Ones ever sing the praises and are easily absorbed in his Name.
The True Sikhs of the Guru recite the ambrosial Word and recognise the Pervading Lord amongst all the hearts.
Only One (God) do they serve, and One do they meditate upon. Ineffable is the discourse of the true Sikhs of the Guru.
The Guruwards serve the True Lord, who comes and takes abode in their heart.
They ever remain imbued with the love of the True Being who by showering His benediction, unites them with Himself.
Of Himself He does of Himself He causes others to do. Some He blesses by raising them from slumber.
By merging man in His Name, God Himself unites him in His union.
Sri Rag, Third Guru.
By serving the True Guru, mind becomes stainless and thy body is rendered pure.
By meeting the profound and unfathomable Master, happiness and eternal peace are received, in the heart.
By sitting in the true congregation, mental consolation of the True Name is acquired.
O my mind! do thou serve the True Guru unhesitatingly.
By serving the true Guru, God shall abide within thy mind and not even a particle of filth shall attach to thee. Pause.
Through True Word springs honour. true is the Name of the True Lord.
I am a sacrifice unto those who still their ego and recognise the Lord.
The perverse know not the True Master. They find no shelter or place any where.
Truth is the food and Truth the dress of the pious, and in the True One they have their abode.
They ever praise the True Lord and in the True Name is their residence.
Amongst all they recognise the pervading Soul, and by Guru's instruction they dwell in their own home.
Truth they see, Truth they tell and in their body and soul is that True Master.
True is their narration and True their instruction. Such True ones have True reputation.
They, who have forgotten the True One, are woe-begone and depart bewailing.
What for they, who have not served the True Guru, have come in this world?
They are bound and beaten at death's door, and none hears their shrieks and wails.0
They lose their life in vain and die, and are reborn again and again.
Beholding this world on fire, I hastened and entered Guru's sanctuary.
The True Guru has impressed upon me ever to abide in justice, truthfulness and self-restraint.
The True Guru is the right ship. By his instruction man swims across the dreadful world ocean.
The mortals continue wandering in eighty-four lakhs of existences and without the Guru they obtain not emancipation.
Tired of extensive reading have grown the Pandits and men of silence. Being attached to duality they lose their honour.
The True Guru has preached unto me the gospel, "without the True Lord, there is no other".
They, whom the True One attaches, get attached to the Truth and ever do the right deeds.
They acquire abode in their own home and dwell in the True Palace.
Nanak the saints are ever happy They get absorbed in the True Name.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
He who is confronted with dire difficulty and whom none offers any asylum,
When friends turn into enemies and even the relations flee away,
and when all the support gives way and all the succour is at an end.
If he then remembers the Supreme Lord, even the hot wind shall not touch him.
The Master is the might of the powerless.
He comes and goes not and is ever permanent. By Guru's word know Him as True. Pause.
If someone be weak from the pangs of poverty and hunger,
and if he has got no money in his pocket, and there be none to give him consolation,
and if no one were to gratify his aim and desire, and no work of his be accomplished.
And if he in his heart, remembers the Supreme Lord, he shall have a permanent kingdom.
He who is plagued by very excessive anxiety and bodily ailment,
He who is wrapped up in household and family and sometimes feels joy and sometimes sorrow;
and wanders in four directions and cannot sit or sleep even for a moment;
Were he to reflect over the Supreme Lord, his body and soul shall be cooled (rest at peace).
Man may be in the power of lust wrath and worldly love, and be a miser through love of greed;
He may have committed the four major sins and other misdeeds; and be a demon to kill,
and he may never have given his ear to sacred books, hymns and poetry.
If he thinks of the Supreme Lord, then, by remembering Him even for a moment, he is saved.
Though the mortal may repeat by heart (the six) treatises on philosophy, (twenty seven) ceremonial books and four Vedas;
Though he may be a penitent, a great sage or a yogi and may visit places of pilgrimage;
and though he may perform six rites twice over and bath and perform worship;
Yet if he has not embraced love for the Supreme Lord, he shall, assuredly, go to hell then.
Though one may have empire, principality, lordship and plentiful enjoyments of dainties.
He may have delightful and beauteous gardens and he may issue unchallengeable orders;
and he may have revels and entertainments of many sorts and continue enjoying buoyant pleasures;
Yet, if he muse not over the Lofty Lord, then, he shall go (be born) in the serpent species.
One may be very wealthy and of good conduct and have spotless reputation and mode of life;
He may bear affection with his mother, father, sons, brothers and friends,
and he may possess weapons-equipped-army and all may salute and welcome him meekly;
Yet, if such man remembers not the Lofty Lord, he shall be taken and consigned to the hideous hell then.
Man may possess body free from disease and deformity and may have no heart-burning and grief;
He may not think of death and day and night revel in pleasures;
and he may have made everything his own and entertain no mental fear:
If he remembers not the Lofty Lord he shall fall in the power of death's myrmidon.
He on whom the Exalted Lord showers mercy obtains the society of saints.
The more he frequents the saints' congregation the more the Love for the Lord.
God Himself is the Lord of both the ends (this world and the next one). There is no other second place of rest.
When the True Guru is mightily pleased, O Nanak! the True Name is obtained.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
I know not what things please Thee, O Master.
Seek thou His way, O my mind! Pause.
The meditator practises meditation.
The theologian practises theology.
But rare is the one who knows the Lord.
The worshipper lives under discipline.
The Yogi asserts that he is emancipated.
The penitent is absorbed in penance.
The man of silence observes silence.
The sokitarian is a celibate.
The stoic is imbued in dispassion.
Adorer's adoration is of nine sorts.
The Pandits read aloud the Vedas.
The householder deems his faith in the family life.
The utterer of one Word (Invisible') the chameleon-faced one the naked one.
The patched-coat wearer, the showman the one remaining awake at night.
The bath-man is at the places of pilgrimage.
The one going without food, and those who do not touch others,
The one who remains concealed and shows not his sight,
and the one who is wise in his own mind;
None calls himself deficient.
Every one says that he has obtained the Lord.
He is the saint, whom God unites with Himself.
All devices and endeavours,
I have abondened and sought the Guru's sanctuary.
Nanak has fallen at the feet of the Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru Grace's He is obtained.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
Amongst Yogis, Thou art a Yogi,
and amongst reveller, a Reveller.
O Lord! Thine limits are not known to the beings in heavens, This world and the under-world.
I am devoted unto Thee, and I am a sacrifice unto Thine Name. Pause.
Thou didst create the world,
and assigned task to one and all.
Thou seest Thine creation and by Thine omnipotence castest the dice.
Thou art seen manifest in Thy workshop.
Every one Longs for Thy Name.
Without the True Guru, Thou art found not. All others are enticed into the net of mammon.
I am a sacrifice unto the True Guru,
by meeting whom the supreme status is obtained.
The True Guru has caused me to understand Him whom the angelic men silent sages crave for.
How is the society of saints known?
The name of One Lord is mentioned there.
Nanak, the mortal is ordered to ponder over the Name alone. this thing the true Guru has caused me understand.
This world has gone astray in doubt.
Thou Thyself, O Lord! hast misled it.
Great agony befalls the deserted brides, who possess not good fortune.
What are the distinctive marks of the discarded ones?
They miss their Spouse and wander unhonoured.
Dirty is the dress of those brides and they pass their night in distress.
What deeds have the loved brides done.
They have obtained the fruit of preordained writ.
By casting His merciful glance, the Lord unites them with Himself.
They, whom the Lord causes to abide by His Will,
place His Name in their hearts.
Such mates are the True brides, who bear affection to their Spouse.
They who feel pleasure in God's Will,
remove superstition from within themselves.
Nanak, deem that such is the True Guru who unites all with the Lord.
He receives the fruit of God's Name on meeting the True Guru,
who drives away the ego from within himself.
The pain of his evil intellect is eliminated and good luck comes and alights on his brow.
Ambrosia is Thy Word O Master!
It has permeated the mind of thy slaves.
In Thine service, Thou hast placed eternal peace. By showing Thy mercy Thou emancipatest the mortals.
True is known to be the meeting with the True Guru,
If by this meeting the Name of the Lord may be repeated.
Without the True Guru, none has found the Lord. All have grown weary of Performing religious rites.
I am a sacrifice unto the True Guru,
Who has put me, going amiss in error, on the right path.
If the lord casts his merciful glance, He unites man with himself.
Thou, O Lord! art contained in all.
That Creator keeps himself concealed.
Nanak the Maker reveals Him-self unto the Guruward, within whom he has installed his light.
Giving him soul and body, the master did create his attendant,
and himself blessed him with honour.
God preserves the honour of his both hands on his forehead.
All the contrivances and clevernesses avail not.
My Master knows everything.
The Lord has made manifest the and all the people acclaim his servant.
The Lord minded not my merits and demerits.
The Master has honoured His creed of protecting His slave.
By embracing me to his bosom the Lord has preserved me and now even the hot wind brushes me not.
With my soul and body I have reflected over the Lord.
I have obtained the fruit my mind-desired.
Thou art the Lord over the head of kings and emperors. Nanak lives by repeating Thy Name.3
Thou Thyself hast created the universe,
and setting afoot the play of duality hast exhibited it.
The truest of the true is pervading everywhere. He instructs him whom he is pleased with.
By Guru's grace I have obtained God.
Because of that I have shed the love of worldly valuables.
By showing His mercy he has blended me with His ownself.
Thou art the milk-maid, the (Jamma) river and (Krishna) the Herdsman.
Thou Thyself Hast sustained the earth.
By Thy order are fashioned the human vessels and thou Thyself embellishest and breakest them.
They who have fixed their mind with (one) the True Guru,
They have Purged themselves of wordly love.
Immaculate is the light of those (such) mortals. They depart after setting aright their life's mission.
Thine excellences, I for ever,
admire by night and day.
Thou givest Thine gifts unasked Says, Nanak O Man! do thou reflect over the True Lord.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
I fall at Lord's feet to conciliate Him.
The True Guru has united me with the Lord. There is none so great as He. Pause.
The Lord of the world is my Beloved.
He is sweeter than the mother and father.
Among sisters, brothers and all the friends, there is none like Thee, O Lord!
By Thine order the month of Sawan has come.
I have joked the plough of Truth.
I begin to sow the Name in this hope that God, by His beneficence, will cause to yield heaps of corn.
Having met the Guru I recognise but One Lord.
Within my mind I know not of any other account.
God has assigned to me the one task. As it pleases Him, so do I perform it.
O my Brethren! you eat and enjoy yourselves.
In God's Court, the Guru has invested me with a robe of honour.
I have become the Master of the village, and I have taken prisoner its five rivals.
I have entered Thine sanctuary O Lord!
The five cultivator have become my tenants.
None can dare raise his ear (head) now against me. Nanak, the village is thickly populated, therefore.
Sacrifice, O Sacrifice I am unto Thee, O My Lord!
Continually, without break, on Thee I meditate.
Thou hast re-populated the village in ruins. Unto Thee, O My Master! I am a sacrifice.
My beloved God! Thee I ever meditate on,
and obtain the boons which my mind desires.
Thou hast arranged all mine affairs and appeased the hunger of my soul.
I have abandoned all mine avocations.
I serve the True Lord of the universe.
I have firmly tied to my skirt, His Name, the home of nine treasures.
I have obtained the Comfort of comforts.
Within my mind the Guru has implanted Master's Name.
Placing his hand on my brow, the True Guru has shown me my Spouse.
I have founded the temple of truthfulness.
I have searched for and brought into it, the disciples of the Guru.
I wash their feet, wave, fan over them, and bowing, low fall at their feet.4
Having heard words regarding Him I went to the Guru.
He impressed upon me, the goodness of the Name, charity and ablution.
Having embarked on the True boat, O Nanak! the whole world is saved.
The entire universe waits on Thee, day and night.
Lend Thy ear and hear my supplication O Lord!
I have thoroughly tested and seen all Thou alone by Thine pleasures deliverest men.
The Merciful Master has now given the command.
No one now chases and annoys another.
All abide in peace and this now has become a benign regime.
Nectar fall very softly.
I speak as the Master causes me to speak.
On Thee, I take great pride, O Lord! do Thou, of Thine pleasure, accept me.
Thine devotes are ever hungry for Thee.
O God! fulfil my desires.
O Giver of peace! grant me a sight of Thee and take me into Thine embrace.
I have found none as great as Thee.
Thou art contained in the earth, firmament and under-words.
Thou art permeating all the places and interspaces. Nanak, Thou art the True Support of Thine devotees.
I am the petty wrestler of the World Lord.
Having me the Guru, I have put on a tall plumed turban.
All the assemblage to witness wrestling is gathered and the Merciful Master Himself is seated to behold it.
The bugles, drums and trumpets play.
The wrestlers enter the arena and take gyrations round it.
I have floored the five youths (deadly sins) and the Guru has patted me on my back.
All come together in a body.
They shall return home through different routes.
The Guruwards reap profit and leave while the mindwards lose even their capital and depart.
Thou art sans colours and marks.
God is apparently seen to be present.
O Treasure of Excellences! Thine saints continually hear Thine Praises, meditate on Thee and are imbued with Thee.
In every age I am the maid servant of God.
The Guru has cut my fetters.
I shall not again dance in the wrestling arena. Nanak has searched and found this opportunity.
There is but one God. By the true Guru's grace He is obtained.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
In the first watch of night O my merchant friend! by Lord's order, Thou were cast into the womb.
With body reversed Thou performed penance within and prayed to thy Master, O my merchant friend!
Upside down Thou said prayers unto the Lord with fixed attention and affection.
Thou came against manner (naked) in the dark-age (world) and again, shall depart naked.
Such cargo shall be with the mortal, as God's pen has recorded on his brow.5
Nanak, in the first watch, Soul descends into the womb by Lord's will.
In the second watch of the night, O merchant friend! man forgets Lord meditation.
From hand to hand he is handled about like Krishan in the house of Yashodha, O merchant friend!
In arm the mortal is tossed about and the mother says, "this is my son".
O My thoughtless and stupid mind! think of God. At the last moment nothing shall be thine.
Thou knowest not Him, who created the creation Now gather thou wisdom within thy heart.
Says Nanak, in the second watch the mortal grows forgetful of Lord's meditation.
In the third watch of the night, O merchant friend! man's through are fixed with (on) woman and youth.
O merchant friend! he contemplates not over God's Name through which he can be delivered of his bondage.
The mortal remembers not God's Name and has become perplexed with the worldly valuables.
He is imbued with wife's love and is intoxicated with his youth. Thus he wastes his life in vain.
With virtue he has not trade and good actions he has not make his friend.
Says, Nanak, in the third watch, man's mind is attached to wealth and youth.
In the fourth watch of the night O my merchant friend! the reaper comes to the field.
When death's mymidon seizes and dispatches him, O my merchant friend! no one comes to know the mystery.
This secret, when death's minister is to capture and take away the mortal has been given to none. So think of God's O Man
False is the lamentation around him. In a moment the mortal becomes an alien.
He obtains just the thing with which he has enshrined affection.
Says Nanak, in the fourthly watch, O mortal! the reap-man has reaped the field.
Sri Rag, First Guru.
In the first watch of the night, O merchant friend! the child has immature understanding.
The baby quaffs milk and is fondled, O my merchant friend! The mother and father love their child.
The mother and father greatly love their son. Everyone is engrossed in mammon's attachment.
By virtue of good fortune and deeds done in the past, the mortal has come in this world and is now doing deeds for his future mode of life.
Without the Name of pervading God the World is not emancipated and is drowned because of the love of duality.
Says Nanak, O mortal! in the first watch of the night, thou shalt be released by remembering God.
In the second watch of night, O my merchant friend! the mortal is intoxicated with the wine of the heyday of youth.
Day and night he is engrossed in lust, O merchant friend! and God's Name is not in the mind of the blind Man.
The Name of the Omnipresent Lord is not in his heart and he deems other relishes of various types to be sweet.
The false man possesses not Divine Knowledge, meditation, virtue and abstinence from sins and shall go round in births and deaths.
The pilgrimage to shrines, fasting, cleanliness and self-mortification are not of any avail, nor are the rituals, religious ceremonies and hollow adorations.
Deliverance, O Nanak! is in the devotional service of God. Through duality the mortal is engrossed in worldliness.
In the third watch of the night, O my merchant friend! the white swans (hair) come and land on the pool of head.
The youth wears out, old age wins, and with the passing of days the age continues diminishing, O My merchant friend.
O blind-man! thou shalt repent at the last moment, when the death's minister seizes and goads thee on.
Deeming his own, man keeps everything to himself, but in a moment it becomes alien.
His intellect has left and his wisdom has departed. He shall repent for the evil deeds committed.
Says Nanak, O mortal! in the third watch lovingly meditate on the Lord.
In the fourth watch of the night, O my merchant friend! man's body grows old and weak.
His eyes go blind and see not, and his ears hear not the words, O my merchant friend!
With blinded eyes and tongue imperceptible to taste he lives by others might (prop).
How can he, who has no virtue within, obtain peace? An apostate comes and goes.
When the body-crop matures, it bends, breaks and perished. Why take pride on this body which is subject to coming and going?
Says, Nanak, in the fourth watch, O mortal! under Guru's instruction, recognise God's Name.
The end of thy breaths comes, O my merchant friend! and thy shoulders are weighed down by the tyrant old age.
Not even an iota of goodness comes into thee, and bound down by evil shall be driven alone, O merchant friend!
He, who departs with virtue sustains not a storke and his coming and going cease.
Death's tarp and myrmidon cannot touch him, and through love and devotion he crosses the ocean of fear.
He goes with honour, is absorbed in the supreme bliss and all his agonies depart.
Says, Nanak, through the Guru, the mortal is saved and receives honour from the True Lord.
Sri Rag, Fourth Guru.
In the first watch of the night, O my merchant friend! God put the mortal into the womb.
He meditates on God, utters His name and on the Name of Lord God he reflects upon, O merchant friend!
Lord God's Name he repeats and ponders on and in womb fire he sustains life by think of God.
He emerges out and is born. The father and mother become delighted to see his face.
Remember Him, O mortal! to whom the thing (child) belongs. By Guru's grace embrace God's meditation in thy heart.
Says Nanak, in the first watch (of night) meditate on God and He will take pity on thee, O Man!
In the second watch of the night, O merchant friend! the mind is fixed on the duality.
Saying, "he is mine, he is mine", he is brought up. The mother and father hug the child to their bosom.
The mother and father ever hug him to their bosom. In their mind they know that he will earn and support them.
The fool knows not Him who gives (the Giver) and clings to what is given (the gift.)
Rare is the person who, through the Guru, embraces meditation and fixing his heart and love on God, remembers Him.
Says Nanak, in the second watch, O mortal! him the death never devours.
In the third watch of the night, O my merchant friend! man's mind is occupied in the household entanglements.
He thinks, of wealth and gathers wealth, O my merchant friend! but contemplates not over God's Name and God.7
He never remembers God's Name and the Lord Master who is to be his Helper in the end.
This wealth, property and mammon are false. In the end leaving these, the mortal departs in sorrow.
They, whom the Lord mercifully unites with the Guru, repeat the Name of Lord God.
Says, Nanak, in the third watch O Mortal! those persons go and unite with the lord.
In the fourth watch of the night, O merchant friend! God brings about the time of departure.
With thy hands, serve the perfect True Guru, O my merchant friend! Thy whole life-night is passing away.
Serve thou thy God every moment, and never make a delay, where by thou shalt becomes eternal through all the ages.
With God ever enjoy revelments and do away with the pain of birth and death.
Know thou no difference between the Exalted Sat Guru and the Lord, by meeting whom Lord's devotional service is endeared to man.
Says Nanak, in the fourth watch, O Mortal! fruitful is the life night of God's slaves.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
In the first watch of the night, O my merchant friend! God placed the soul in the belly.
In ten months it was make a human being and was given appointed time to practise virtuous deeds.
He was allowed respite to do meritorious deeds, as was the primal writ for him.
The mother, father, brother, son and wife, amongst them the Lord united him.
God Himself causes mortal to do evil deeds and good ones, In the power of this being lies nothing.
Says Nanak, in the first watch, O mortal! God cast him in the belly.
In the second watch of the night, O my merchant friend! mortal's full-blooded youth is violently waving.
Being intoxicated with pride, O my merchant friend! the man distinguishes not between good and bad.
The mortal distinguishes not between good and bad, and the way ahead is arduous.
He did never serve the perfect True Guru, and over his head stands tyrant death.
When the Righteous judge shall seize and question thee, O demented person, what answer shalt thou, then, give him?
Says Nanak, in the second watch, the full-bloom youth storm tosses the mortal.
In the third watch of the night, O my merchant friend! the blind, ignorant fellow amasses poison.
He is entangled in the love of his sons and wife, O my merchant friend! and in his heart rage the currents of avarice.
Within his mind are the waves of greed, and that Lord, the mortal remembers not.
He associates not with the saints' congregation and suffers pain in many existences.
He has forgotten the Creator Lord and fixes not his attention on Him even for a moment.
Says Nanak, in the third watch, the blind and ignorant mortal amasses poison.
In the fourth watch of the night, O merchant friend! that day of death is approaching near.
Through the Guru remember thou the Name of God, O my merchant friend! and it shall be thy friend in Lord's Court.
By Guru's instruction, O mortal! think of the Name and it shall be thy succourer in the end.8
This attachment with mammon shall not go with thee. False is to embrace affection for it.
The entire night has passed away in darkness. By performing service of the True Guru Divine light shall dawn on thee.
Says Nanak, in the fourth watch, that day thy death, O mortal! dawn on thee.
On the receiving of the warrant of Lord of the World, O my merchant friend! the man gets up and departs with the deeds committed.
They allow not a moment's delay, O merchants friend! They seize the mortal with firm hands.
On the receipt of the written order, the beings are seized and dispatched. Ever distressed are the perverse person.
In Lord's Court, ever comfortable are they, who serve the perfect True Guru.
The body is the field of actions in this age. Whatever one sows that he eats (reaps.)
Says Nanak, the devotees look beautiful in Lord's court, while the self-willed ever wander in transmigration.
Sri Rag, Fourth Guru.
There is but God. By the True Guru's favour He is attained.
How can the silly bride behold God's sight in her father's home (in this world)?
When the Lord Master shows His mercy, the Guru ward bride learns the affairs of her Spouse's home, (the next world).
The pious wife learns the affairs of her Spouse's home and ever meditates on her Lord God.
She shall then walk happy among her mates and in God's Court shall swing her arm.
By repeating the Name of Lord God, she strikes off the balance of the account of the Righteous Judge.
The simple wife beholds the sight of God in her father's home through the Guru.
My marriage is performed, O my father! By Guru's instruction I have obtained God.
The darkness of my ignorance is removed. The Guru has blazed the very bright light of Divine Knowledge.
The Guru-given Divine Knowledge is shedding lustre I have therefore found the priceless gem of God's Name.
My malady or ego has departed and my anguish is over. Under Guru's instruction I myself have eaten up my self-conceit.
I have obtained God of immortal form, as my Spouse. He is imperishable and so dies or goes not.
The marriage has been solemnised, O my father! And by Guru's instruction, I have found God.
The truest of the true is my Lord, O my father! by meeting God's Slaves the marriage procession looks beautiful.
She, who meditates God, shall be happy in this world and in the next one shall look extremely beauteous.
In the world to come, she shall be very beautiful, who in this world has remembered the Name.
Profitable are the entire lives of those, who by Guru's teaching have conquered their minds by throwing the dice of the Name.
By meeting the saintly persons of God my affair has prospered, and I have obtained the jovial Lord as my Husband.
True, True is God, O my father! Accompanied by God's slaves the marriage party gets embellished.9
O my father! give me the Name of Lord, as a gift and dowry.
Grant me God as my raiment, and God as my glory, wherewith my task may be accomplished.
Through devotion to Lord God the marriage is rendered pleasant. The great True Guru has given me the gift of God's Name.
In continents and the universe has spread the glory of God. This gift of the Name cannot be confounded with others by confounding.
Any other dowry which the perverse place for show that is false pride and worthless gilding.
O My Father! give me the Name of Lord God as a gift and dowry.
The Lord God pervades everywhere, O my father! On meeting with her Spouse, the bride spreads like creeper.
The faith and sect of those united with God Guru, is forever set going throughout the two and two ages (four), rather all the ages.
All the ages through shall run the True Guru's religious lineage which under Guru's instruction, remembers the Name.
Almighty God never dies or goes. What He gives ever continues increasing.
Nanak, the one Lord is the saint of saints. By repeating Lord God's Name the bride is adorned.
The Lord God pervades everywhere O my father! On meeting with her Spouse the bride extends like a creeper.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's favour He is obtained.
O my dear friendly soul! do thou meditate on the Name of the World -Master.
O mind! my sweet friend, God shall stand by thee.
Ponder over God's Name. He shall be an ever-present Helper of thine.(From God's door) none returns empty-handed.
Thou shalt obtain the fruits desired by thy heart by fixing thy mind on Lord's lotus feet.
With thy sight behold in every heart the Lord of the world-forest, who is fully pervading the ocean and land.
Nanak, gives thee a counsel, O my dear soul! burn thy scepticism in the society of saints.
O dear mind! my friend, without God all the ostentation is false.
O dear mind! my friend, the world is an ocean of poison.
Make the lotus feet of the Creator thy boat so that doubt and anguish may not overtake thee.
Whom, through the greatest good luck, the Perfect Guru meets; he reflects over the Lord day in and day out.
From the very beginning and throughout the ages God is the Master of His slaves. His Name is the prop of His saints.
Nanak, counsels thee, O my dear soul that without God all the show is false.
O my sweet friendly soul! do thou occupy the ever stable door of God.
O my darling friendly soul! do thou occupy the ever stable door of God.
He who serves at the door of the imperceptible and inscrutable God, obtains the permanent seat.
There is no birth and death there and not any coming and going and mortal's anxiety and anguish end as well.
The account-paper of the recording angels is torn up and death's couriers become helpless.
Nanak, counsels the dear soul to load the cheap cargo of God's Name.
O my darling friendly soul! abide thou in the society of saints.
O my darling friendly soul! By repeating God's name the Divine light shines.0
By remembering the Lord, of easy access, all the desires are fulfilled.
By virtue of past actions I have attained to the Lover of eminence the Lord. He who was separated from me since long has met me.
Within my mind I have obtained faith in Him who is pervading everywhere within and without.
Nanak, counsels thee, O my beloved Soul! to secure abode in the saints' congregation.
O mind! my dear friend do thou heartily remain absorbed in the lovable service of God.
O my soul! my dear friend, the mind's fish remains alive only by meeting God's water.
All the pleasures abide within the mind of those who are satiated by drinking God's ambrosial Gurbani.
On attaining the Lord of excellence, I sing songs of joy. The True Guru has become merciful and my desires are fulfilled.
The Guru has attached me to his skirt and I have obtained the nine treasures. The Lord given Name is everything for me.
Nanak counsels the saints to instruct, so that the soul is sunk in the devotional service of God.
Sri Rag, Fifth Guru.
There is but One God. Through the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Couplet.
Within my mind is my Beloved How shall I see His sight?
By seeking the sanctuary of the Saint Guru O Nanak! Lord the prop of life is found.
Chhant.
The life's routine of bearing affection with Lord's lotus feet has entered the mind of His saints.
The evil practice and bad habit of the love of duality, Lord's slaves like not.
Sans Lord's sight, nothing is pleasing to His attendants without Him. How can they have peace even for a moment?
Without Lord's Name, the body and mind are empty and die like fish sans water.
Meet me my Beloved. Thou art the support of my life. Meeting the society of saints I sing Thy praises.
O Lord of Nanak! show mercy and permeate thou this soul, body and heart of mine.
Couplet.
Beauteous looks the Lord at all places. I see not any other.
By meeting the True Guru the shutters are opened, O Nanak!
Chhant.
O Lord! incomparable and infinite are Thy words. They are the mainstay of Thy saint. Reflect on Gurbani, O Man!
With perfect faith, at every breath and morsel of mine, I meditate on the Lord. How can I forget Him in my mind?
Why should I mentally forget and put off even for a moment the meritorious Master who is my very life?
The Lord gives the heart desired fruits and knows the entire condition of the mind.
By meditating on the Patron of the patron-less and the Comrade of all the life is not wasted away in gamble.
Nanak, supplicates unto the Master to mercifully make him swim across the dreadful world-ocean.
Couplet.
When the Lord becomes merciful, man bathes in the dust of the feet of the saints.
Nanak has obtained all the articles as God is his wealth and property.
Chhant.
Beautiful is Lord's abode. It is the resting place of His slaves, who live in the hope of getting at it.1
Their mind's and bodies are absorbed in the meditation of the Lord's Name, and they quaff God's elixir.
God's Nectar they drink and become eternally stable. The water of sins, they deem insipid.
When my Lord, the world cherisher became merciful, I came to admit that in the society of saints are the nine treasure.
O my dear! they, who sew into their mind God the gem, obtain all happiness and abundant joy.
Even for a moment they forget not God, the prop of life, and live by constantly remembering Him O Nanak!
Cuplet.
Thou meetest those, whom Thou makest Thine own, O Lord!
By hearing Thine praises, O Nanak! Thou Thyself are bewitched.
Chhant.
By using the intoxicating herb of affection, I have won over the world-Master, and fascinated His mind.
By being attached to the bosom of the unfathomable Lord, through saints' grace, I look graceful.
In God's embrace I look beauteous and end all my agonies. Because of the devotee's attributes, the Lord has come into my power.
When the world, Lord became pleased, all the joys came to abide in my mind and birth and death have been all eliminated.
My mates! sing songs of joy. My desire are fulfilled and I shall no more experience mammon's jolts.
The beloved Lord has taken hold of my hand and now the world-ocean touches me not, O Nanak!
Couplet.
The Master's Name is invaluable. None knows its worth.
Who have good luck recorded on their brow, they, O Nanak! enjoy God's love.
Chhant.
The Lord's Name's reciters are sanctified, hearers all become worthy of praise and scribes save their entire lineage.
They, who meet the society of saint, get imbued with God's Name and dwell upon the Lord.
They contemplate over the Creator reclaim their lives, and on them the Lord has showered His perfect grace.
God has taken them by the hand and blessed them with His praises. They run not in existences nor do they die.
Through the merciful and compassionate True Guru, I have met God and stilled my lust, wrath and avarice.
The indescribable Lord cannot be described. Nanak is devoted and a sacrifice. unto Him.
Sri Rag Fourth Guru. A trade,
There is but one God. True is His Name. By the True Guru's favour he is attained.
Excellent is the Name of Lord God who has fashioned all.
Venerable God nurtures one and all. In every heart is that Omnipresent Lord.
Ever meditate on that Lord. There is none else besides Him.
They who fix their mind on the love of mammon, leave it and depart bewailing in distress.
Servant Nanak has meditated on the Name of God, who shall be his helper in the end.
I have none but Thee, O God.
In Guru's sanctuary God's found, O my trader friend. By the greatest good luck He is obtained. Pause.
O Brother! without the saintly persons, no one has obtained God's Name.
They, who do deeds in ego, are like a prostitute son, who has no name.
The mortal acquires father's caste only when if the Guru being pleased shown favour unto him.
Finding the Guru with great good fortune, day and night, the man comes to embrace love for the Lord.
Slave Nanak has realised the pervading Lord and he does the deed of singing God's praises.
Within my mind is the fervent yearning for God's Name.
The Perfect Guru has implanted God's Name within me, and by meditating on the Name I have met the Lord God. Pause.
As long as there is youth, nay rather breath, so long do thou continue remembering the Name.
On thy march God shall go with thee, and in the end the Lord shall rescue thee.
I am a sacrifice unto those, within whose mind God has come and acquired an abode.
They, who have not pondered on Lord God's Name, shall at last regretfully depart.
They, who bear pre-ordained writ on their brow, O slave Nanak! remember the Name of Lord God.
O my soul! do thou embrace love for God's Name.
By great good luck the Guru is obtained, and through Guru's instruction one is ferried across the world-ocean. Pause.
By Himself the Lord creates, and Himself He gives and takes.
By Himself, God leads astray in doubt and Himself imparts understanding.
Within the mind of the Guru-ward is divine light but rare, how rare, are they?
I am a sacrifice unto those who under Guru's instruction, have found God.
O slave Nanak lotus (my heart) has bloomed and into my mind has come to dwell God, the Lord.
O my soul! repeat thou the Name of God.
O my soul! hasten unto the sanctuary of the God-like Guru and all the sins and miseries shall leave thee. Pause.
The Omnipresent Lord abides within the mind of every body. How and in what way can He be obtained.
By meeting the prefect True Guru God comes, and dwells in man's mind and heart.
God's Name is my support and sustenance. It is from the Lord's Name that I obtain salvation and pure understanding.
In Lord God's Name my faith lies and God's Name is my caste and honour.
Serf Nanak has remembered the Name, and he is imbued and dyed deep in the colour of God's affection.
Meditate thou on God, the True Lord God.
By Guru's Word, does man understand God, the Lord of all. From the Lord God is all creation. Pause.
They, who are so pre-ordained, come to the Guru and meet him.
With the light of the Name of Lord Master, the Guru blesses those, O my trader friend! who posses the sentiments of God's serfs.
Blest, blest is the trade of the traders, who have loaded the true merchandise of God's Name.
Birth are the faces of the Guru-wards at God's Court. They come to the lord and blend with Him.
They obtain the Guru, O servant Nanak! with whom the Lord, the Treasure of excellences, is Himself mightily pleased.
With every breath and morsel of food, O man! do thou reflect on God.
The pious persons, whose way of life is the meditation of God's Name, come to embrace in their mind the love for the Lord. Pause.3
There is but one God. Through the True Guru's favour He is obtained.
Eulogy by the Fourth Guru in Sri Rag with slokas.
Slok Third Guru.
Amongst strain Sri Rag is the best strain, if through it one comes to enshrine affections for the True Lord.
The understanding of him in whose heart the True God ever abides, is ever stable and unequalled.
By ruminating over the hymns of the Guru, the mortal obtains the invaluable gem.
His tongue becomes true, soul becomes true and true becomes his body's form.
O Nanak! ever true are the dealings of those, who serve the True Sat Guru.
Third Guru.
Except the love one professes for the Lord, all other loves are unstable.
This mind is infatuated by mammon so much so, that it can see and hear not.
Without beholding the Spouse, love is not produced. What can a blind man do?
Nanak, that True One who deprived man of the eyes, can restore them.
Pauri.
God alone is the Creator of all and but one is God's Court.
God's alone is the command, and place thou God alone in thy mind.
Without that Lord there is no other. Remove thou thy dread, doubt and fear.
Praise that Master alone, who protects thee, within thy home and without.
He, unto whom God becomes merciful, swims across the formidable ocean of fear by remembering God.
Slok, First Guru.
The Gifts are of the Master How can one contend with Him?
Some whilst awake receive them not and others He awakens from sleep and gives.
First Guru.
Faith and contentment are the characteristics of the faithful and tolerance is the viaticum of the angles.
The perfect persons obtain the sight of the Lord and the defaulters find no place.
Pauri.
Thou, O Lord! hast Thyself created all and hast Thyself put each to work.
By beholding Thy greatness, Thou Thyself art pleased.
My God, without Thee there is nothing. Thou art the True Lord.
Thou Thyself art contained in all the places.
Meditate ye, O saintly persons! on that God who shall rescue thee at the end.
Slok, First Guru.
Perposterous is caste and vain the glory.
The Lord alone gives shade to all the beings.
Some one may call himself good,
but his being good shall be only known when his honour shall be accepted in God's account O Nanak!
Second Guru.
Die before the Beloved with whom thou hast love.
To live after him is to lead an accursed life in this world.
Pauri.
Thou Thyself didst create the earth and the two lamps of the moon and the sun.
Thou hast fashioned ten and four shops (the fourteen worlds) where-in the business is transacted.
God grants profit to some who becomes Guruwards.
'Them the death myrmidon touches not, who drink the Nectar of the True Name.
They themselves along with their family are saved, and every one who follows them is also saved.
Slok, First Guru.
Having created the universe that Lord abides there-in.4
He who thinks (avails) of the life time becomes the servant of God.
The worth of Him who is in the universe, cannot be known.
Even if one were to know the value he cannot describe it then.
People think of religious laws and regulations.
But without understanding God, how can they swim across?
Make faith thy bowing and let the conquest of mind be thy aim of life.
In whatever direction I see, I find God present in that direction.
Third Guru.
The society of the Guru is not attained like this, neither by being bodily near nor far-off.
Nanak, then alone does the True Guru meet if the mind ever remains in his presence.
Pauri.
Seven, islands, seven oceans, nine continents, four Vedas and tem and eight (eighteen) Puranas,
Thou, O Lord God! art contained among all and all bear Thee love.
All the men and other beings reflect upon Thee, O God! the holder of earth in Thy hand.
I am a sacrifice unto those who under Guru's instructions meditate on God.
Thou Thyself pervades every where. Thou performest worderous plays.
Slok, Third Guru.
Why send for pen and inkpot? Write thou in the heart.
If thou ever abide in Lord's love. thine affection shalt never sunder from Him.
The pen and inkpot shall go and what is ascribed shall also go along with.
Nanak the love of the Spouse, which the True One bestows from the very outset, perishes not.
Third Guru.
What is seen, shall not depart with the mortal, See it by adopting any means whatever.
The True Guru has implanted the True Name within me and I remain absorbed in the love of the True Name.
Nanak, the giver of the Name is the True (Guru) and is obtained by God's grace.
Pauri.
Thou, O God! within and without. Thou art the Knower of secrets.
Whatever man does, God knows that. O my soul! do thou remember Him.
He, alone who commits sins is in fear and the virtuous one rejoices.
Thou, Thyself art True and true is Thine justice. Why should then man be alarmed.
Nanak, they who recognise the True Lord get blended with the True Lord.
Slok, Third Guru.
Burnt be the pen with the inkpot Burnt be also the paper.
May the write who writes about the love of duality be burnt down.
Nanak the mortal does what is predestined for him; he can not do anything else.
Third Guru.
False is other study, false other speech and false the love with wealth.
Nanak, sans God's Name, nothing is permanent. Through (temporal) extensive reading, the mortal is ruined.
Pauri.
Great is the greatness of God, and glorious the singing of praises of Lord God.
Great is the greatness of God, for His justice is in accordance with Equity.
Magnificent is the magnificence of God, as man gets the fruit of His mental actions.
Magnificent is the magnificence of God, for He hears not the words of the traducer.
Praise worthy is the praise of God, for He gives gifts without asking.
Slok, Third Guru.
Indulging in excessive ego, the entire world has perished. The worldly wealth goes not with anyone.5
Because of profane affection, the man suffers agony. Death's courier is spying all.
Nanak, the Guruwards are saved by contemplating over the True Name.
First Guru.
In words we are good, but in deeds bad.
Within mind we are impure and black, but white from without.
We emulate with those who stand and serve at Lord's door.
They are imbued with the love of their Bridegroom and enjoy the pleasure of His dalliance.
They remain powerless even when possessing power and are ever humble.
Nanak, our lives become profitable if we associate with them (such brides).
Pauri.
Thou Thyself art the water and Thyself the fish. By Thy ownself Thou art the net.
Thou Thyself castest the net and Thyself art the film in (on) the water.
Thou Thyself art the unaffected lotus of fast red dye in hundreds of cubics deep water.
Thyself Thou emancipatest the mortal who thinks of Thee even for an instant and a while.
O God! nothing is beyond Thy reach, I am supremely delighted to behold Thee by means of Gurbani.
Slok, Third Guru.
She, who knows not Lord's order weeps copiously.
In her is deceit, so she sleeps not a sound sleep.
If the soul-bride acts according to the will of her Spouse,
she obtains honour at her own home and is called to the Lord's palace.
Nanak, by God's grace this understanding is obtained.
By Guru's favour, she gets absorbed in her True Master.
Third Guru.
O perverse person! bereft of Lord's Name, go not astray by beholding the colour of the safflower.
It's colour will last a few days and paltry is its price.
Through attachment to duality, the foolish, blind and stupid persons putrefy to death.
They fall as worms into ordure and perish over and over again there-in.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the Name and are happy and take on the Guru's state of equipoise.
The colour of devotion fades not and they easily remain absorbed in God.
Pauri.
Thou Thyself hast created the entire creation and reachest sustenance to it.
Some eat by practising deceit and fraud, and from their mouth they drop falsehood and untruth.
Thou hast put them to that task and they do that very work which pleaseth Thine own self.
To some Thou has explained truthfulness, and to them Thou hast given inexhaustible treasures there-of.
Profitable is the advent of those who eat by remembering God. They, who remember not the Lord, stretch out their hand to beg.
Slok, Third Guru.
For the aim and love of wealth, the Brahmans constantly read and expound the Vedas.
Through the love of worldly valuable the foolish mind has forgotten God's Name and he shall be awarded punishment.
He never think of him who gave him the soul and body and who provides all with sustenance.
The noose of death shall not be cut from his neck and he shall continue to come and go over and over again.
The blind self-willed man understands nothing and practises what is pre-destined for him.
Through the perfect good fortune, True Guru, the giver of peace, is met and the Name comes to abide in man's mind.
He enjoys peace, wears peace and in the joy of joys he passes his life.
Nanak, in thy mind grow not oblivious of the Name, by which honour is obtained in the court of the True Lord.
Third Guru.6
By serving the True Guru happiness is produced. the True Name is the treasure of excellences.
By Guru's instruction, one recognises his ownself, and the light of Lord's Name comes into him.
The true man practises truth. The greatness is with the great Lord.
He glorifies and supplicates the Lord, to whom belong his soul, body and everything.
By singing the praises of the true lord, he abides in supreme bliss.
Within his mind, though man may practises recitation, penance and self-restraint, yet without God's Name, accursed is his living.
By Guru's instruction, Lord's Name is received. The self-willed perish through worldly love.
Protect me as Thou willest, O Master! Nanak is thy slave.
Pauri.
All are thine, O lord! and thou belongest to all. Thou art the capital of everyone.
All beg of Thee for alms and each day make supplication.
Whomsoever Thou givest, he obtains every thing. To some Thou art distant and to some near.
Without Thee, there is no place where to beg from. Let some one verify and see in his mind.
All praise Thee, O Lord! To the Guruwards, Thy door becomes manifest.
Slok, Third Guru.
Through love and attachment of wealth the Brahman shouts aloud when reading and reciting.
The foolish and ignorant man recognises not the creator who is with-in his-self.
Because of love and duality, he instructs the world and himself understands not Divine knowledge.
He loses his life in vain and dies and is born again and again.
Third Guru.
They, who wait upon the True Guru, receive Lord's Name. Reflect over and understand this.
Their wailings and complaints come to an end and peace, and joy ever abide in their mind.
Their self eats up its self-conceit and their mind becomes pure by reflection over Gurbani.
Nanak, they, who are imbued with the Name and bear love and affection to the venerable Lord, get emancipated.
Pauri.
Accredited is the service of God, who approves it through the Guru.
With whom the Lord is pleased, him meets the Guru, and he alone ponders over the Name.
By Guru's words, God is obtained, and the Lord ferries the man across the world-ocean.
Through mind's obstinacy none has attained to God. Go and consult the vedas.
Nanak, he alone performs God's service whom God attaches to Himself.
Slok, Third Guru.
Nanak, he is the brave warrior who has subdued his vicious inner ego.
By praising the Name, the pious person reforms his life.
He himself is ever emancipated and saves all his lineage.
They who bear love to the Name, look beauteous at the True gate.
The self-willed die in egotism. They degraded even the death (die an ignoble death).
Every thing befalls according to the Lord's will. What can poor mortals do?
Attached to ego and duality, the man has forgotten the Master.
Nanak, without the Name, all is suffering and happiness is forgotten.
Third Guru.
The perfect Guru has implanted God's Name in me, and that has dispelled doubt from within me.
Lord's Name and God's praises I did sing. The Divine light was kindled and I was shown the way.
By effacing my ego, I fixed my attention on one God and implanted the Name within my mind.7
By Guru's instruction I got absorbed in the True Name and death's courier can not touch me.
The creator Himself pervades everywhere. He associates to His Name those with whom He is pleased.
If slave Nanak repeats God's Name, then alone, does he live. Without the Name he dies in an instant.
Pauri.
He, who repairs to God's court, is accepted at all the courts.
Wherever he goes, he stands exonerated there. By seeing his face all the sinners are saved.
Within him is the Name treasure, and through God's Name he becomes acceptable.
The Name he adores, the Name he believes in and God's Name effaces all his sins.
They, who meditate on God's Name, with single mind and single heart, remain eternal in this world.
Slok Third Guru.
Worship thou the bright Lord with the Guru-given mental equipoise.
If the individual soul has faith in the supreme soul, it shall then obtain Divine knowledge within it's home.
Like the Guru's natural inclination, the soul then becomes steady, and wavers not.
Without the Guru, peace is not obtained and the filth of greed departs not from within.
If God's Name dwells in the mind even for an instant and a movement, it includes bathing at all the sixty-eight place of pilgrimage.
To the True, filth attaches not. Impurity attaches to him who harbours love for duality.
By washing, it never departs though one may have ablutions at sixty-eight shrines.
The perverse person practises deeds of pride and he earns nothing but pain over pain.
Nanak, only then, the dirty one becomes neat and tidy, when he merges in the True Guru.
Third Guru.
The self willed -person is counseled but how can he be instructed?
Through introduced to the good, the perverse person associated not with them, and owing to his past misdeeds goes round in transmigration.
God's love and mammon's attachment are the two ways, and which act (way) one commits (treads) depends on God's Will.
The Guruward has vanquished his mind by applying the touch stone of Gurbani.
With his mind he contends, with his mind he parleys and with his mind he engages in contest.
With the love of the True world, man obtains that what he desires.
He ever drinks the Name Nectar and practises deeds according to Guru's instruction.
He who grapples with some other than his own mind, shall departs after wasting his life.
Through mind's obstinacy and the practise of falsehood and untruthfulness, the waywards lose the life game.
He, who by Guru's grace, subdues his evil-self, fixes his love on God.
Nanak, the holy man practises truth and evil one continues coming and going.
Pauri.
O saintly person of God! my brothers hear thee an instruction of the Godly True Guru.
The mortal, who has good fortune pre-ordained on his face and brow grasps and keeps it in his heart.
By means of Gurbani, he has easily tasted the sublime, exquisite and ambrosial discourse of God.
There in his heart draws the Divine Light which like the sun, removing night's darkness, banished his mental ignorance.
Through the Guru, he beholds with his eyes the unseen, unapproachable, unknowable and immaculate Lord.8
Slok, Third Guru.
The heads (men) who serve their True Guru, becomes fruitful.
Having effaced their self-conceit from within them, they remain absorbed in the love of the True Lord.
They, who serve not the True Guru, waste their lives in vain.
Nanak the Lord does that what he wills. None has any say there-in.
Third Guru.
He, whose mind is encircled by sins, commits evil deeds.
The spiritually blind worship duality and they are punished in Lord's court.
Adore thou, the soul Illuming Lord but without the True Guru, his understanding cannot be obtained.
Meditation penance and self mortification are in the acceptance of the True Guru's will. By God's grace man receives this understanding.
Nanak, attentively perform the service of the Lord but that service alone shall be approved which God Likes.
Pauri.
O my soul! do thou meditate on Lord God's Name which will ever bring thee peace by day and night.
Repeat thou the Name of the Lord Master, O my mind! by remembering which all thine evil deeds and sins will be effaced.
Repeat thou the Name of the Lord Master by which all the poverty, pain and hunger shall be removed.
Lord, God's Name do thou remember, O my soul! by which thou shalt come to embrace affection for the Supreme Exalted Guru.
He on whose face the True One has from the very beginning, inscribed good luck, utters God's Name with his mouth.
Slok, Third Guru.
They who serve not the True Guru and ponder not over Gurbani,
obtain not Divine knowledge in their hearts and are as dead in the world.
They go round in eighty-four lakhs of existences and are ruined in death and birth.
He whom that Lord Himself causes to perform, performs the service of the True Guru.
In the True Guru is the Name treasure, which is obtained by God's grace.
Ever sincere is the affection of those who are truly imbued with the Guru's words.
Nanak, he whom God unites with Himself, separated not from Him and is easily absorbed in Him.
Third Guru.
He is the man of God's sect who knows the Auspicious Master,
and by Guru's grace recognises his ownself.
He restrains his wandering mind and brings the One God in his heart-home.
He remains dead whilst alive and repeats the Name of God.
Sublime is such a devotee.
He is absorbed in the True Lord O Nanak!
Third Guru.
There is deception within his mind and he calls himself a true devotee.
Through hypocrisy he shall never obtain the Supreme Lord.
He slanders others and soils his soul with filth.
He washes off the filth from outside, but his heart's impurity goes not.
With the saints congregation he picks up a quarrel.
Absorbed in the love of duality night and day, he remains miserable.
He remembers not God's Name and performs many rituals.
What is destined from the very outset, that cannot be effaced.
Nanak, without serving the True Guru, salvation is not obtained.
Pauri.
They, who dwell on the True Guru, burn not to ashes.
They, who dwell on the True Guru, are satisfied and satiated.
They, who think of the True Guru, have no fear of death.9
They, unto whom God becomes merciful, fall at the True Guru's feet.
Here and hereafter their faces are bright. They go to God's court arrayed with the robe of honour.
Slok, Second Guru.
Cut off the head ; the head which bows not to the Lord.
Nanak, take and burn the human frame, an which there is not he pang of separation from God.
Fifth Guru.
Having forgotten the Primal being, O Nanak! (the creative woman) is born and dies, again and again.
Mistaking it for musk, she has fallen into the filthy pit.
Pauri.
My soul! remember thou that, such, Name of God, who rules over all.
My Soul! repeat thou that such Name of God which shall rescue thee at the last moment.
My soul! repeat thou that, such. Name of God, which shall drive out all thy mind's desires and hungers.
Through the Guru the very fortunate fellow ponders on the Name, which makes all the slanderers and sinners fall at His feet.
Nanak, do thou deliberates over the most Exalted Name of God, before which Name all come and kneel down.
Slok, Third Guru.
The unsightly and of evil-disposition bride wears good clothes but her soul is impure and false.
She walks not according to the will of her spouse. The ignorant bide, rather, gives Him orders.
She who walks in the will of the Guru, escapes all the miseries.
The one which the Creator had pre-ordained, that writ cannot be erased.
She ought to dedicate her soul and body to her spouse, and nurture affection for His world.
See and reflect on this in thy mind, without the Name's meditation, none has obtained the Lord.
Nanak, beauteous and well-conducted is she, whom the creator enjoys.
Third Guru.
The love of wealth is darkness. It's this shore and yonder one are not seen.
The ignorant self -willed person suffer supreme pain and are drowned, forgetting God's Name.
Arising in the morning they perform many rituals and their attachment is with duality.
They who serve their True Guru, cross the terrible -ocean.
Nanak, the Guruwards keep the True Name clasped to their heart and get absorbed in the True Lord.
Pauri.
God is fully pervading the ocean, the sandy tracts, the earth and the sky, Besides Him there is no other second.
Seated (on the throne), God Himself administers justice and thrashing all the false, He drives them off.
To the truthful God grants greatness and administers even handed justice.
Ye all praise the Lord, who protects the poor and the masterless.
He grants laurels to the virtuous and to the evil-doer He awards punishment.
Slok, Third Guru.
The waywards woman is filthy, ill-natured and an evil wife.
She leaves her Husband and home and bears affection to another person.
Her passion is never extinguished she burns and cries aloud.
Nanak, without God's Name, she is unsightly and unhandsome, and her Husband has forsaken and abandoned her.0
Slok Third Guru.
She, who is imbued with Gurbani and bears love and affection to the True Guru, is a happy bride.
With true attachment and reverential regards, she ever enjoys her Beloved.
She is extremely lovable, beauteous and praise -worthy wife.
Nanak, with the Name of her Lord, she is made the true bride and the Blender blends her with Himself.
Pauri.
All sings thine praises, O God! who has set free the entrapped.
Everyone makes obeisance unto Thee, O Lord! who has rescued one from sins.
O God! Thou art the honour of the dishonoued. Thou art the strongest of the strong, my Lord.
God beats down the egoists and corrects the self- willed fools.
God grants glory to His saints, the poor and the patronless.
Slok Third Guru.
He, who walks according to the will of the True Guru, obtains great honour.
The exalted Name of God abides in his heart, and none can undo his renown.
He, unto whom the Lord shows His kindness, obtains His Name through meritorious deeds.
Nanak, the creation is in the power of the creator. Rare is the one who realises it through the True Guru.
Third Guru.
Nanak, they, who meditate on God's Name, night and day, abide in the Lord's constant love.
The mammon, the maid -servant of the Master performs services before them.
The perfect one, the reformer, by His order has made them perfect.
They, who by Guru's favour understand God, obtain the gate of salvation.
The waqywards understand not Lord's fiat. Them, the death's courier beats with a rod.
They, who dwell on the Lord, by Guru's grace, cross the terrible world-ocean.
The Guru, who himself is the pardoner, wipes out all their demerits with merits.
Pauri.
His serfs have confidence in God. The Lord knows every thing.
None is as great a knower as God. The Lord administers nothing but justice.
Why should we feel burning and anxiety when the Lord punishes not without justification?
True is the master and true his justice. The vicious man alone suffers defeat.
Praise ye, O saint! the Lord with hands folded. God saves the saintly persons.
Slok, Third Guru.
May I meet my beloved and continue to hold him to my mind and heart.
Through the love and affection of the Guru, I praise that, Lord for never and aye.
Nanak, own whom is His grace, He unites her with Himself. She alone, is the faithful bride of the Lord.
Third Guru.
He, to whom God shows mercy, obtains Him by performing the service of the Guru.
By meditating on God's Name. From the mortals they become demigods.
They efface their ego, unite with the Lord, and are saved by Guru's word.
Nanak, they on whom God confers His favour, are easily absorbed in Him.
Pauri.
By putting man to his devotional service, God has manifested His glory.1
God causes the devotee to place faith in Him and through him performs His own service.
God bestows bliss on His faithful adorers and seats them in the eternal home.
To the sinners He allows not stability. Picking them up, He consigns them to the terrible hell.
The Lord blesses His devotees, with His love and taking their side saves them.
Slok, First Guru.
Evil-intellect is the she-drummer, heartlessness is the butcheress, other's slander in the heart is a sweepress and deceitful wrath is a pariah-women.
What does the drawing of lines avail thee when these four are seated with thee?
Make righteousness thy abstinence, pious way of life thine lines and the Name's meditation thy abolition.
Nanak, they alone shall be exquisite here-after who do not walk the way of sins.
First Guru.
What is a swan and what is a crane? The Lord may show mercy to any He likes
He, who is pleasing to Him, O Nanak! him He makes a swan from a crow.
Pauri.
Whatever works, thou desirest to do, tell that to the Lord.
He shall accomplish thy affair. The True Guru bears true testimony to it.
By the company of the Saints, thou shall taste the treasure of the Name-Nectar.
The merciful Lord, the destroyer of dread, preserves the honour of His slave.
Nanak, sing thou the praises of God and thou shalt see the invisible Lord.
Slok, Third Guru.
Our soul and body are all His. He lends supports to all.
By Guru's instruction, serve Him who is ever and ever the donor.
I am a sacrifice unto those who meditate on the formless Lord.
Their faces are ever bright, and the whole world makes obeisance unto them.
Third Guru.
On meeting the True Guru, I am altogether altered, and I have obtained the nine treasures to spend and eat.
The eighteen miracles follow me in train and I abide in my own home and own place.
Unbeaten celestial strain ever plays for me and in the state of exaltation I am absorbed in God's affection.
Nanak, God's devotion abides within the heart of those on whose forehead such fate is found inscribed from the very out set.
Pauri.
I am a minstrel of Lord God, the Master and have come to His gate.
God listened to my loud plaint from within and me, the bard, He called into His presence.
Calling the eulogist in, God asked him the object of his arrival there.
O my merciful Master God! ever grants me the gift of Thy Name meditation.
God, the Bestower, caused Nanak to remember Lord's Name and clothed him with the robe of honour.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's favour He is obtained.
Sri Rag, by Reverend Kabir. To be sung to the tune of "Ayk Su-Aan".
The mother thinks that her son is growing up; but this much she understands not, that day by day his age is diminishing.
Calling him mine, my own, she fondles him excessively. The king of death's couriers looks and laughs.
So much hast Thou, O Lord! misled the world in illusion.
How can it understand Thee, O Master! since mammon has bewitched it? Pause.
Says Kabir, abandon the pleasures of sin, for thou shalt assuredly die in their association.
O mortal! remember thou the omnipresent Lord, by means of Gurbani, the grantor of eternal life. In this way, thou shalt swim across the terrible ocean.
When it pleases Him, it is then that man comes to embrace love for the Lord,
and the error of superstition departs from within him.
Equipoise is produced and the intellect awakens towards Divine knowledge.
By Guru's grace, the heart is touched by Divine love.
In this association of God, there is no death.
Recognise His order and than shalt thou meet the spouse. Second. Pause.
Sri Rag, Tirlochan.
In the mortal's mind is the great love of wealth through which he has forgotten the fear of old age and death.
On beholding thy family thou bloomest like the lotus flower. O vicious man! thou espieth other's homes.
When the powerful courier of death comes,
I cannot stand before before his awesome power.
Rare is the friend, who having come into this world says,
Meet my Beloved and embrace me with Thine arms around me.
Meet me my pervading God and rescue me. Pause.
O mortal, in various and diverse pleasures and royal revelments thou hast forgotten God and falling into this world ocean thou deemest that thou hast become imperishable.
Cheated by mammon thou thinkest not of the Lord and thou, the idle man, wastest away thy life.
O mortal! thou hast to tread a difficult and terrible path, where the sun and moon have no entrance.
When man leaves the world he forgets the love of mammon, then.
Today it has become manifest my mind that the Righteous Judge continues spying mortals.
There, his supremely powerful couriers crush men between their hands, and I can not stand up against them.
If someone gives me instruction, then, it ought to be this that Pervading God is contained in woods and grass blades.
Says Tirlochan O my venerable Pervading God! Thou Thyself knowest everything.
Sri Rag, Saint Kabir ji.
Listen, O Pandit! the one Lord alone is worderous. I cannot now describe Him
Who have bewitched demigods men, celestial heralds and musicians, and has nailed the three worlds.
The sovereign Lord's lyre plays unstruck,
and through His kind glance one comes to cherish affection for the music. Pause.
I have obtained the tenth gate as a still, with a funnel to suck in and a funnel to spit out, and mind as a golden vat.
In that vat, the extremely pure steam of Name Nectar trickles. Like this I have distilled the essence of essences.
An incomparable thing has happened, My breathe, I have made the wine-cup.
In the three worlds he is the unique Yogi (who drinks such wine). Say, which king can equal him?
Says kabir, such knowledge of the Supreme Person has manifested itself, that I have been imbued with His love.
The rest of the world is all deluded by doubt but my soul is intoxicated with the elixir of pervading God.3
Sri Rag, Saint Beni. To be sung in the tune of Pahre.
There is but one God. By the favour of the True Guru He is obtained.
O man! when thou wert in the belly's coil, thou didst meditate and fix thy attention on the Lord, standing on thy head.
Thou harboured not the pride of the dignity of thy perishable body and being completely rid of ignorance thou contemplated over one God, day and night.
Recall the travail and supreme suffering of those days Now thou hast greatly extended the net of thy mind
Leaving the womb thou entered this mortal world. Then, thou, O man! didst forget God in thy mind.
Thou shalt, afterwards, repent, O fool! through what evil intellect art thou attached to scepticism?
Remember the pervading Lord, otherwise thou shalt go to the city of death's myrmidons. Why, O man! do thou wander unrestrained? Pause.
A child feels anxiety for plays and sweet and by degrees it gets entangled in worldly love.
In the misunderstanding of savoury and scared ambrosia, man eats poison and then, the five passion appear and then torture him.
Man abandons meditation, toilsome service, self-restraint and propensity towards good actions and repeats not pervading Lord's Name.
His lust overflows, blackness attaches to his understanding and then he hugs to his bosom another's woman.
In the arduour of youth, he stars at the faces of other wives and distinguishes not between good and evil.
In the intoxication of lust and other great sins he goes amiss and distinguishes not vice from virtue.
By beholding his sons and wealth, this mind of his goes proud and he forgets the pervading Lord from his heart.
On another's death he weighs his wealth in his heart. Thou, O Man! has wasted thy life in the pleasure of urinary orifice (ravishment) and mouth (dainties).
His grey hair are whither than even the jasmine flower and his voice grows feeble as if it proceeds from the seventh under-world.
When his eyes water and his intellect and strength flee, then the desires begin to churn him.
Therefore with vices his soul is gone dry and the lotus flower of his body has withered away.
By renouncing the word of the Immortal Lord in this mortal world, Thou, O man! shalt regret afterwards.
Beholding the small bodies (children) love springs in man's mind and he takes pride on them but understands not the Lord.
Though his eyes see not anything still he cherishes longing for the dignity of long life.
The fire is extinguished, the soul bird has flown away and his corpse is not now tolerated in home and courtyard.
Says Beni, hear O saint! who has obtained salvation after (such an ignoble) death?
Sri Rag,
Thou art me, I am Thou, What is the difference.
The same as between gold and its bracelet and between water and its ripples.
If I did not commit sins, O my Infinite Lord!
How should thou have gained the Name of the Redeemer of sinners? Pause.
Thou, who art my Master art the searcher of hearts.
From the Lord is knows His servant and from the servant his Lord.
Grant, me the Wisdom to meditate on Thee with my body.
Some rare person can explain to me that the Lord is uniformly contained amongst multitudes (all) O Ravdas!
Majh Rag, Couplets, Fourth Guru.
There is but One God. True is His Name, creative His personality and Immortal His form. He is without fear without enmity, unborn and self-illumined. By the favour of the True Guru he is obtained.
Lord God's Name is in every way pleasing to my mind.
By the great good fortune, I have pondered over God's Name.
The Perfect Guru has obtained perfection in God's Name. A few walk in the Guru's way.
The viaticum of God's Name, I have tied to my skirt.
The succourer of my soul shall ever, bear my company.
The Perfect Guru has implanted God's Name (in my heart). In my lap I have imperishable wealth of God's Name.
The Lord God is my friend. He is my beloved Monarch.
Let some one come and introduce me to God, the Rejuvenator of my very life.
I cannot live without seeing my Darling. The tears are profusely falling down my eyes.
My friendly True Guru is my infantine intimate.
I cannot sustain life without a sight of him, O my mother!
O venerable God! show mercy and cause me to meet the Guru. From his slave Nanak shall gather the wealth of God's Name, in his lap.
Majh, Fourth Guru.
Lord, the Lover of Nectar, is my soul, body and very life.
Without God, I recognise no other second.
If by greatest good fortune some friendly saint meets me, he would show me the way to Lord God, my Beloved.
I search and seek my heart and body.
How shall I meet my amiable Beloved, O my mother?
Joining the society of saints, I inquire about the track to God. In the saints congregation, the Lord God abides.
My sweet, darling, the True Guru, is my protector.
I am a helpless child, cherish me, O my Guru.
The great and perfect True Guru, is my mother and father. By obtaining the Guru-water my heart-lotus blooms.
Without seeing the Guru, I find no sleep.
The separation from the Guru afflicts my soul and body with pain.
O Lord God! show mercy unto me and cause me to meet the Guru. By meeting the Guru, slave Nanak blossoms forth.5
Majh, Fourth Guru.
Recite God's glories and God's glories do thou reflect upon.
Ever hearken thou, O man! the discourse of Lord Master's Name.
By meeting the society of saints and singing God's praises, the arduous and hideous world-ocean is ferried over.
Come my maids! let us meet our Lord.
They shall give me the message of my love.
He alone is a friend, comrade, beloved and brother of mine, who shows me the way to the Lion-man, the incarnation of God.
My malady the perfect Divine Guru Knows.
I cannot live without uttering Lord's Name.
Give me the medicine of God's Name, O my Perfect Guru! it is through Lord God's Name that I swim across.
I am a poor pied-cuckoo, in the sanctuary of the True Guru.
The Guru has oozed the drop of the Name of Lord God in my mouth.
God is the treasure of water, and I a fish in that water. Without this water, serf Nanak, meets his end.
Majh, Fourth Guru.
O saints, O servants of God! meet me, my brothers.
Tell me of my Lord God, I feel hunger for Him.
My Bestower, the Life of the world, fulfil my faith. By obtaining the sight of God my soul is sated.
Joining the saints society, I recite Divine Guru's hymns.
Lord Master's discourse is pleasing unto my mind.
The ambrosia of God's Name, is in every way, sweet unto my Soul, I quaff the Name Nectar-by meeting the True Guru.
By great good luck, man finds God's congregation.
The unfortunate ones wander in doubt and sustain strokes.
Without good fortune the guild of the righteous is not found. Without such an association one is soiled with the filth of sins.
Come and meet me, O my Beloved, the life of the world.
Be merciful, O Lord God! and implant Thy Name in my heart.
Under Guru's instruction, the sweet Name has become pleasing to my mind, and slave Nanak's soul is over joyed with the Name.
Majh, Fourth Guru.
From the Guru, I have obtained God's knowledge and Lord God's elixir.
My soul I imbued with God's love and drinks God's Nectar.
With my mouth I utter Lord God and Lord God's Name, and my mind is overflowing with God's ambrosia.
Come, O Saints! and hug me to my Lord's bosom.
Recite to me the discourse of my Beloved.
If I meet such saints of God, who with their mouth recite Gurbani, I would offer my Soul unto them Through,
God has introduced me to His saint.
The Perfect Guru has poured into my mouth God's Nectar.
The unfortunate one obtain not the True Guru. The perverse person ever enters the womb existences.
The Merciful Lord has Himself been moved with pity,
and He has removed all the poisonous filth of ego.
'Nanak, the Guruwards buy the Goods of God's Name from the stalls of the city of human body.
Majh, fourth Guru.
I meditate on the excellences and the Name of God, the world Master.
Joining the guild of the saints I place God's Name within my mind.
The Lord God is the inaccessible and inapprehensible Master. By meeting True Guru, I enjoy Divine Bliss.6
Blest, blest are the slaves of God, who know Lord God.
I go and ask such slaves the discourses of God.
I shampoo their feet and wash and rub them, By meeting God's attendants, I quaff God's ambrosia.
True Guru, the bestower, has implanted God's Name in my heart.
By the greatest good luck, I have obtained the sight of the Guru.
By uttering the Nectarean True Name, I drink the ambrosial essence. It is from the perfect Guru that the elixir is obtained.
O God! cause me to meet the society of the saints and the true persons.
On meeting the congregation of the pious persons I shall ponder on God's Name.
Nanak God's gospel I hear and recite with my mouth Under Guru's instruction I am satiated with God's Name.
Majh, Fourth Guru.
Come, my sisters! meet me my dears.
I am a sacrifice unto her who tells me of my Beloved.
Joining the saints congregation, I have found, God, my friend I am devoted unto the True Guru.
Whither-so-ever I see, I find my Lord thither.
Thou, O Lord! the Searcher of hearts, art contained in all the hearts.
The perfect Guru has shown my God with me. Unto the True Guru I am ever a sacrifice.
There is but one breath, all are identical in matter and among all the entire light is the same.
The One light is contained among all the different and diverse things. By any one's intermingling, this light intermingles not with another light.
By the Guru's grace, I have seen the One Lord. Unto the True Guru I am a sacrifice.
The Servant Nanak speaks but Nectarean Gurbani.
To the mind of Gur-sikhs, it is dear and pleasing.
The great and perfect True Gurru, imparts instruction. The great True Guru is beneficent to all.
Seven Couplets of the Fourth Guru.
Majh, Fifth Guru, Couplets.
My soul longs for a sight of the Guru.
It bewails like the pied-cuckoo.
My thirst is not quenched, nor peace I find, without the sight of the dear Guru-saint.
I am a sacrifice, and my soul, I sacrifice unto the sight of the Guru, the dear. Pause.
Thy face is beautiful and the sound of Thine words imparts Divine Knowledge.
It is long since the sparrow-hawk, had a glimpse of water.
Blessed is the land where though livest, O venerable Divine Guru, my friend and intimate.
I am devoted, I am devoted unto the honourable, Godly Guru, my friend and intimate. Pause.
If I meet Thee not even for a moment then, the dark age is dawned for me.
When shall I now meet Thee, O my beloved, auspicious Lord? 7
I can pass not the night and sleep comes not the me, without beholding the Guru's Court.
I am a sacrifice, and I sacrifice my soul unto that True Court of the venerable Guru. Pause.
It is my good fortune to have met the saintly Guru.
The immortal Lord, I have found in my own home.
I will now serve Thee and even for a trice and a moment will not separate from Thee, Servant Nanak is a serf of Thine, O reverend Master!
I am devoted and my soul is devoted unto Thee. Servant Nanak is a slave of Thine. Pause.
Majh Rag, Fifth Guru.
Pleasant is the season when I remember Thee, O Lord.
Sublime is the work which is dome is Thy service.
illustrious is the heart in which Thou dwellest, O Lord! the giver of all.
Thou art the joint father of us all, O Lord.
Thine are the nine treasures and inexhaustible storehouse.
He, whom Thou givest is sated and satiated. He alone is the devotee of Thine.
All sit in Thy hope, O my Master!
In all hearts, Thou abidest.
All are called partners in Thy grace. Thou art seen alien to none.
To the Guruwards Thou Thyself emancipatest.
To the self-willed Thou Thyself goadest into births and deaths.
Serf Nanak is a sacrifice unto Thee. Obviously manifest is Thine entire play, O my Master.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Easily and comfortably the celestial strain rings.
In the joy of the Name, I ever make merry.
I sit in trance in the cave of Diving Knowledge, and I have adjusted my seat on height.
Having rambled and roamed about I have arrived at my own home, at last.
I have obtained that What I longed for.
I remains satisfied and satiated, O saints, as the Guru has shown me the fearless Lord.
God himself is the king and Himself the subject.
He Himself is the ascetic and Him self the enjoyer.
Sitting on the throne, the Lord Himself administers even-handed justice, so the cries and complaints all come to an end.
As I have seen God, so have I described Him.
He alone, who knows Lord's secret, tastes Nectar,
His light merges in the supreme Light and he obtains peace, The entire extension is of the One Lord, O Serf Nanak!
Majh, Fifth Guru.
The house where-in the Spouse got His marriage celebrated;
In that house, the maid-comrades sang the songs of rejoicing,
The joys and merry making look graceful in the house, where the Spouse has bedeck, His bride;
She is meritorious, she is very fortunate.
blessed with sons, tender-hearted, hear to her husband,
beautiful and she is wise and clever; the bride who is darling to her Bridegroom.
She alone is well-conducted and the most distinguished.
All the decoration and wisdom behoove her.
She is of high family, and she is the queen who is adorned with the love of her Beloved.
The glory of her cannot be described,
whom her Spouse has embraced and blended with Himself.8
Eternal is her married life and unapprochable and unknowable is her Groom, O slave Nanak, Lord's love is the mainstay.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Seeking and searching Thee, O My Master! I have grown desirous of Thine sight.
The forests and woods of various varieties I have traversed.
Is There any one who would take me to and unite me with my Lord Master, Who is simultaneously unmanifest and manifest.
One may recite by heart the wisdom of the six schools of philosophy.
He may perform worship, bear the frontal mark and have bath at shrines.
He may practise inner washing feats and adopt eighty four postures of the yogis. But in these he shall find no peace.
For many years he may perform recitation and penance,
and he may travel and roam over the earth.
Yet peace enters not his heart even for a moment and up is yogi's mind to venture out again and again.
Through His mercy the Lord has caused me to meet the Saint.
My soul and body are rendered cool and I have obtained composure.
The imperishable Lord has secured an abode in my heart, and Nanak sings the praises of God.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
The transcendent Lord is illimitable bright, inaccessible,
inapprehensible, invisible and inscrutable.
God is Merciful to the poor Cherisher of the world and the Master of universe. By meditating on Him under Guru's guidance salvation is obtained.
Through the Guru God the killer of Madh demon, delivers the mortal.
By Guru's grace God the enemy of ego becomes man's comrade.
By Guru's meditation the merciful master with a string round His belly is obtained and not by any other means.
He does not eat, He has beautiful hair and Lord is free of hate,
whose feet millions of men adore.
He alone is the unique saint within whose mind through the Guru God's Name abides.
Ever fruitful is the sight of the infinite and peerless Lord.
The Master is supremely omnipotent and ever the Giver.
Through the Guru remember God's Name. Therewith the man swims across O Nanak rare is the person who understands this state.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
I act as Thou sayest and receive what Thou givest.
The humble and partronless take pride in Thee.
Thou art Thou art everything, O my Beloved! I am sacrifice unto Thy omnipotence.
In Thy will, man wanders in wilderness and thy will he finds the right path.
In Thy will, he songs God's praises through the Guru.
In Thy will because of scepticism he wanders in many existences. Everything happens subject to that Commandant's command.
By Himself, none is foolish or wise.
In every sphere Thy will prevails.
Thou art unapprochable, beyond comprehension, infinite and unfathomable. Thy worth cannot be told, O my Master!
Bless me with the dust of feet of the saints, O Beloved!
I have come to lie prostrate at Thy gate, O God!
By seeing Lord's sight, my soul is satiated, O Nanak! and easily meets Him.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Then alone, the man is in pain when he forgets God.
Afflicted with hunger, he runs about in many ways.
By remembering the name he is ever at ease. He alone receives the name whom God the Merciful to the humble, gives.9
My True Guru is all-powerful.
If I remember Him within my mind, it is then, that all my sorrows depart.
My ailment of anxiety and affliction of ego stand annulled, and the Lord Himself cherishes me.
Like a child I ask for everything.
By so giving Lord, the king, suffers no deficiency.
To greatly propitiate Him, I repeatedly fall at the feet of God, who is kind to the poor and the cherisher of the universe.
I am a sacrifice unto the perfect True Guru,
who has shattered all my shackles.
By infusing the Name in my mind, he has rendered me pure. Through Lord's love, O Nanak! I have become home of Nectar.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
O my Beloved Lord! Thou art the world cherisher, kind,
blissful, deep, profound, infinite, the master of universe,
lofty, fathomless and limitless. I live by continuously remembering Thee.
Thou art destroyer of pain, priceless, treasure,
fearless, uninimical, unfathomable, unmeasirable, of immortal from, unborn and self-illumined. by pondering over Thee, within my mind, I becomes peaceful.
of immortal from, unborn and self-illumined. by pondering over Thee, within my mind, I becomes peaceful.
Joyous Lord, the world-cherisher, is ever a companion of mine.
The high and the low, He nurses.
With Lord's Name, the home of Nectar, my mind is satiated. By Guru's grace, I drink the Nectar.
In woe and weal. O Beloved! I remember Thee.
This sublime understanding I have obtained from the Guru.
Thou art Nanak's support, O Lord God! By Thine love I swim across the sea of life.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Blessed is the time when I met the True Guru.
By beholding his accredited sight with my eyes, I am saved.
Auspicious are all durations of time the Mahurat (48 minutes) the chasa (4/5 seconds), the pal (24 seconds), ghari (24mintues) and felicitous is that union which is with the True Guru.
Making the effort, my mind is rendered pure.
By walking in God's way, my doubt is all cast away.
The True Guru has caused me to hear God's Name, the treasure of excellences, and all my ailments are eliminated.
Within and without I chant Thine Gurbani.
Thou Thyself uttered it and Thyself did describe it.
The Guru did say "God is one and through all the times, He is but one, and there shall not be any other".
The immortalising Nectar I have quaffed from the Divine Guru.
God's Name has becomes my raiment and diet.
For me the Name is delight, and Name the sports and entertainments. God's Name, Nanak has made his dainties.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
I beg of all the saints to give me a commodity.
I make a supplication and abandon my ego.
Lakhs of times I am sacrifice unto them and pray for the grant of the dust of feet of the saints.
Thou, O Lord! art the donor and Thou the mighty destiny scribe.
Thou art Omnipotent and ever the peace-giver.
All are blessed by Thee, Do Thou make my lifetime, fruitful.
Whose home body is rendered pure by Thine sight,
they conquer the arduous soul fort.
Thou art the giver and Thou the powerful designer of chances. None is as great a warrior as Thou.00
I applied the dust of feet of the saints to my face.
My mal-understanding and unfortunate evil intellect did disappear.
I sit in the True Home and sing Lord's praises, and my falsehood is cast away, O Nanak!
Majh, Fifth Guru.
O my so great Bestower! let me not forget Thee.
Show mercy unto me so that I be imbued with the love of Thine devotees.
As it may please Thee, O Lord! grant me this gift that by day and night I may meditate on Thee.
In the dead dust Thou hast infused comprehension.
Thou hast given me all the things and good places.
Of all the joys, merry-makings wonderous plays and entertainments what-so-ever pleases Thee that comes to pass.
(Remember the Lord) whose are all the gift which we receive.
Thirty-six kinds of delicious diets to eat, comfortable couches,
cool wind, peaceful revelments and enjoyment of sweet pleasure.
Give me the mind, O Lord! which may forget Thee not.
Grant me the understanding by which I may remember Thee.
I sing Thine praises with my every breath, O Lord! Nanak has sought the refuge of the Guru's feet.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
O Lord of Thy will! to obey Thy command is to praise and eulogise Thee.
That alone is the Divine comprehension and visualisation which pleases Thee.
That alone is the meditation which the venerable Lord likes. To abide in His will is the perfect knowledge.
He alone sings Thine ambrosial Name,
who is pleasing to Thy mind, O Lord!
Thou art of the saints and the saints are Thine. The saints' mind is domesticated with Thee,
O Lord! Thou nurturest Thine saints.
The saints sport with Thee, O World-Nurserer!
Thine saints are very dear to Thee. Thou art the life-breath of Thy saints.
My soul is a sacrifice unto those saints,
who recognise Thee and who are pleasing to Thy mind.
In their association I have obtained perpetual peace. With the God's elixir Nanak is sated and satiated.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Thou art, O Lord! an ocean of water and I am a fish of Thine.
I, the thirsty piedcukoo, long for the drop of Thy Name.
Thou art my hope thine is the thirst with me and with (in) Thee my mind is absorbed.
As the child is satisfied by quaffing milk,
as a poor-man obtains happiness by finding wealth,
and as a thirsty person is refreshed by drinking cold water so is this soul drenched with delight in the association of God.
As the lamp lights the darkness,
as the hope of wife thinking of her husband is fulfilled and
as one becomes happy on meeting one's beloved so is my soul imbued with the God's love.
The saints have put me on the God's path.
The merciful saint has domesticated me with God.
God is mine and I am a slave of His, O Nanak! the Guru has given me the True Name.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
The Nectarean Name is ever pure.
God is the giver of comfort and the dispeller of pain.
I have tasted and seen all other relishes but to my mind the God's dainty is the sweetest of all.01
Whoever drinks this Nectar he is gratified.
Immortal becomes he who obtains the Name Nectar.
The Name treasure is obtained by him in whose mind the Guru's hymns abide.
He who receives the God's essence is appeased and cloyed.
He who obtains the God's relish wavers not.
He who has good fortune recorded on his brow attains to the Name of the Lord God.
God has come into the hands of One Guru from whom good many receive favours.
On associating with Him many get emancipated.
The Name treasure is received through the Guru. Says Nanak, rare are those who behold their Lord.
Majh Fifth Guru.
My God the Lord Master is nine treasures eighteen miracles and all the riches.
The deep and profound One is the wealth of life.
He who falls at the feet of the Guru, enjoys lakhs and millions of pleasures and delights.
On seeing the sight of the Lord One is rendered pure,
and he saves all his brothers and friends.
By the Guru's kindness, I meditate on my inaccessible and incomprehensible True Lord.
Him whom men make all the efforts to search,
only a few, by great good fortune obtain a sight of Him.
Lofty infinite and invisible is the Lord's place. The Guru has shown me that palace.
Profound and unfathomable is Thine Nectarean Name, O Lord!
He in whose mind it abides is emancipated.
The Guru has cut off all (his) or (their) fetters and he gets absorbed in the Lord, O serf Nanak.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
By the Lord's favour, I meditate on the God's Name.
Through the Lord's grace, I sing songs of joy.
All our lives through we ought to remember God whether standing sleeping or walking.
The saint has given me the medicine of God's Name.
It has cut off my sins and I have become pure.
Happiness reigns all round. My pains have all departed and all my pangs are over.
He whose side my Beloved takes,
is delivered from the world ocean.
He who recognises the Guru practices Truth. Why should he then feel frightened?
Since the time I have obtained the society of saints,
and met the Guru the demon of pride has departed.
With every breath of his Nanak sings the praises of God. The True Guru has screened my sins.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Like warp and woof the Lord is intertwined with His servant.
The comfort-giver Lord cherishes His serf.
I carry water, wave fan and grind grain for the (God's) attendant who has the longing and occupation of the Lord's service.
The Lord has cut my noose and yoked me to His service.
The order of the Lord is pleasing to His slave's mind.
He does that what is pleasing to his Master. Within and without the servant becomes supreme.
Thou art the wise Master knowest all the ways.
The Lord's serfs enjoy God's affection.
What belongs to the Lord that belongs to His page. The page is distinguished in the association of his Lord.
He whom his Master clothes with the robe of honour,
is not called to account again.
To that servant Nanak is a sacrifice. He is the pearl of the deep and infinite Lord.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Everything is within the home, not even one is without.
He who seeks without is lost in doubt.
By Guru's grace he who has found the Lord in his mind is comfortable within and without.
Within him the stream of Nectar uniformly rains.
The soul drinks hears and reflect upon the Name.
It rejoices and enjoys day and night and sports with God for ever and aye.
Separated since many births, I have now met God,
and by saint-Guru's grace, though dried up have reverdured.
Through the Guru I have obtained exquisite understanding have meditated on the Name and have met the Lord.
As the waves of water blend with water,
so my light is blended with the Lord's light.
Says Nanak, the shutters of delusion have been hewed down and there shall be no more wandering.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Sacrifice am I to him who has heard of Thee.
Sacrifice I am to him who has uttered Thy Name with his tongue.
I am ever a sacrifice unto him, who with his soul and body meditates on Thee O Lord!
I shampoo the feet of him who walks in Thine path.
With mine eyes I long to behold that beneficent person.
I tender my soul unto that friend of mine who meeting the Guru has found that Lord.
Greatly fortunate are they who know Thee.
Amidst all they remain apart and unaffected.
In the society of saints they cross the terrible world-ocean and conquer all their evil passions.
Their asylum my soul has entered.
It has eschewed its self-conceit self strength and the darkness of worldly love.
(O my saintly Guru!) grant Nanak the gift of the Name of that unapproachable and unfathomable Lord.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Thou art the tree, Thy branch has blossomed.
From being very minute Thou hast become very big.
Thou art the ocean of water and Thou its foam and bubble. Without Thee I see not another.
Of the rosary Thou art the thread and Thou its beads too.
Thou art its knots and Thou its topmost chief bead.
In the beginning the middle and in the end that Lord is. No one else comes to my view.
Thou art unqualitative, qualitative and the peace-giver.
Thou art unaffected the enjoyer and imbued in affection.
Thine ingenuities Thou Thyself knowest. It is thou who rememberest Thyself.
Thou art the Master and Thou again the servant.
Thou, O Lord art unmanifest and manifest Thyself.
Serf Nanak ever sings Thine praises. For a moment look on him with Thine gracious glance.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Blest are the words where with the Name (of God) is uttered.
Rare is the person who knows through an utterance by the Guru's grace.
Auspicious is the time when man sings and hears the God's praises. Acceptable is the advent in this world of such a man.
Acceptable are the eyes which beholds the Lord's sight.
Praiseworthy are the hands that write the praise (of God).
Beautiful are thy feet which walk in the Lord's way. Sacrifice am I to them in whose company I recognise God.
Hearken, O my friend intimate and beloved!
In the society of the saints thou shalt be saved in a moment.
Thy mind shall be purged clean of sins and thy coming and going shall cease.
Clasping both the hands I make a supplication, O Lord!
Show mercy unto me and save the sinking stone.
Unto Nanak the Lord has become merciful to Nanak's mind the Lord is pleasing.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
My Lord God! Thy Gurubani is Nectar.
By continuously hearing it, I have obtained the highest rank.
The burning within me is extinguished and my soul is rendered cool on having the sight of the True Guru.
Happiness is obtained and sorrow flees far away,
when the saints repeat God's Name with their tongue.
The sea, dry land and tank are completely filled with the Name water and no place is left empty.
That Creator has showered His benediction,
and has cherished all the men and lower animals.
The Lord is kind merciful and compassionate. All are satiated and satisfied through Him.
The woods, grass blades and the three worlds the Lord has rendered green.
The Doer in a moment did all this.
Under Guru's instruction, Nanak meditates on Him who fulfils the heart's desires.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Thou art my father, Thou art my mother,
Thou art my kinsman and Thou art my brother.
In all the places Thou art my protector. Then why should I feel fear and anxiety?
By Thy grace do I understand Thee.
Thou art my covert and Thou art my honour.
Beside Thee there in no other second. The entire universe is the arena of Thy play.
All the men and other beings Thou hast created.
As is Thy will so are the tasks Thou hast assigned to them.
All that is done is Thy doing. There is nothing ours in it.
By meditating on Thine Name. I have obtained supreme bliss.
By singing the God's praises my soul is cooled down.
By the perfect Guru's grace, Nanak has captured the arduous battlefield and congratulations are pouring in on his victory.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Lord is the mainstay of my soul life and mind.
The saints sustain life by singing the praises of the endless One.
God's Nectarean Name is the treasure of excellencies and by continually repeating it I have obtained peace.
He, who with hearty aspiration comes from home,
and joins the society of the saints gets rid of the cycle of birth and death.
The hopes and heart's desires are realised by having the sight of the Guru.
The limit of the inaccessible and inapprehensible Lord cannot be known.
On Him meditate the strivers men of miracle and the divines.
My ego is erased and misconception removed. The Guru has manifested the Lord within my mind.
Which is the treasure of joy, rejoicing, salvation,
and supreme bliss; I utter the Name of that God.
When my Master did become merciful, O Nanak! His Name entered my mind's home.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
I live by hearing with mine ears Thine tiding.
Thou art my Beloved O my very great Master!
Thine affairs Thou alone knowest I have Thine prop O world cherisher!
By signing Thine praises the soul is reverdured.
Hearing Thy discourse the entire filth is removed.
Meeting the society of the holy and pious persons I ever meditate on the merciful Master.
My Lord! with every breath I remember.
This understanding by the Guru's grace I install in my mind.
By Thine grace the Divine light dawns. The All-merciful Master nurtures everyone.
True True, True is that Lord.
Ever, ever, ever, the Lord is all by Himself.
Thine blissful plays are manifest, O my Beloved! Seeing them Nanak is extremely pleased.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
By the order of God the rain begins to fall.
The friends and saints meet and repeat the Name.
Serene tranquillity and celestial bliss I have obtained since the Lord Himself infused coolness within my mind.
Everything in great abundance God has produced.
Showing His mercy the Lord has satiated all.
When Thou givest gifts, O my Bestower! the mortals and other sentient being are all gratified.
True is the Master and true His Name.
By the Guru's grace I ever meditate on Him.
He has dispelled my fear of birth and death, and my worldly love, sorrow and adversity are erased.
With every breath Nanak eulogises the Lord.
By remembering God's Name all his fetters are cut off.
In an instant, all his hopes are realised by reflecting upon the excellences of God, the Lord Master.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Come, my dear friends, saints and intimates.
Let us in unison sing the praises of the inaccessible and infinite Lord.
They who sing or hear His Name are all emancipated. Let us meditate on Him who did create us.
The sins of many births will depart,
and we shall receive the fruits that our heart desires.
Meditate on that Lord the True Master who gives sustenance to one and all.
By repeating the Name all the comforts are obtained.
By pondering over God's Name all the fears are annulled.
He who serves the Lord is the perfect person and all his affairs are adjusted.
I have come and entered Thine sanctuary.
As it pleases so do Thou unite me with Thee.
Take pity on me and put me in Thine devotional service, O Lord! that Nanak may drink the true Nectar.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
The world-preserver and the Lord of the universe has become Merciful.
The rain falls at all the places.
The ever-benevolent Creator, Merciful to the poor has cooled us all.
He nourished His sentient beings,
as a mother takes care of her child.
Lord the destroyer of distress and the ocean of peace gives sustenance to all.
The Merciful One is fully filling the water and dry land.
I am ever devoted and a sacrifice unto Him.
Night and day I always meditate on Him, who in an instant saves all.
The Lord Himself protects all,
and all the sorrows and afflictions depart.
Meditating on the Name the soul and body are rendered ever green and with gracious glance the Lord looks on the mortal O Nanak!
Majh Fifth Guru.
Where the Name of the beloved Lord is recited,
those deserted places are like the golden mansions.
Where the Name of my world Master is not repeated those towns are like a wilderness.
He, who lives on dry bread and remembers God,
He visualizes the Lord within and without.
Know that he who eats copiously and does evil is like an orchard of poison.
The ignorant man who bears not love with the saints,
and does evil deeds in the company of the wicked,
loses his unprocurable body (life) and himself extirpates his own root.
O Merciful to the meek I have entered Thy sanctuary.
Thou O great cherisher of the universe! art an ocean of happiness.
Show mercy that Nanak may sing Thine praises and thus preserve my (Nanak's) honour.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Lord's feet I have treasured up in my mind,
All my botherations and sufferings have fled far away.
Within me naturally rings the music of peace and pleasure and I abide in the society of saints.
Love contracted with the Lord never sunders.
Within and without the Lord is fully pervading.
By remembering, remembering and ever remembering the Lord and singing His praises the noose of death is moved down.
The rain of ambrosial Gurbani is incessantly falling.
There with within my mind and body the Divine peace has entered.
Sated and satiated remain Thine serfs, O Lord! and the True Guru patronizes them.
I have obtained the boom from Him (the Guru) to whom I belong.
Showing his mercy the Guru has united me with the Lord.
Through great good luck my coming and going have ceased and my hopes have been realized, O Nanak!
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Rain has fallen the Lofty Lord has made it fall.
He has caused all the men and other beings to abide in peace.
Their suffering is gone and true happiness has dawned on them by pondering on the Lord God's Name.
He whom thy belonged has nursed them.
The Exalted Lord Master has become their protector.
My Master has heard my supplication and my service has borne fruit.
The Lord is the giver of all the living beings.
By the Guru's grace I have seen Him with mine eyes.
The beings of the ocean land and sky are all satiated. I wash the feet of the Saint-Guru.
Lord is the fulfiller of mind's aspiration.
Ever and ever I am a sacrifice unto Him.
Nanak the destroyer of pain has given me this gift and I am imbued with the love of Him who is the home of happiness.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
My soul and body are Thine, my wealth too is Thine.
Thou art my Lord Master Husband.
My Life and body are all Thy capital and my power is from Thee, O the world cherisher!
For ever and aye Thou art the giver of peace.
I bow ever bow and fall at Thine feet.
If it pleases Thee and when Thou givest me, O merciful One! will perform Thy service.
O Lord! from Thee alone I receive and Thou art my ornament.
Whatever Thou givest me, I endure that as comfort.
Wherever Thou keepest me, there I find heaven Thou art the nurser of all.
By meditating and pondering on the Lord, Nanak has obtained peace.
Throughout the eight watches of the day he sings Thine praises.
All his heart's desires are fulfilled and he shall never more be distressed.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
The Lofty Lord Master has sent the cloud.
In ten directions and over sea land He has caused it to rain.
Peace has ensued. All the thirst is quenched and there is joy at all the places.
God is the giver of comfort and the destroyer of distress.
He Himself gives gifts to all the beings.
His creation, He Himself nurtures Falling at His feet I propitiate Him.
By seeking whose shelter emancipation is obtained,
meditate with every breath on the Name of God.
Without Him there is no other second Master. All the places are but His.
Thine is the honour and Thine O lord is the strength of mine.
Thou art my True Lord an ocean of excellences.
Serf Nanak makes a supplication Throughout the eight watches of the day I reflect upon Thee.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
All the happiness ensues when the Lord becomes very pleased.
The feet of the perfect Guru abide in my mind.
In the Lord's love I have acquired profound concentration. That bliss the enjoyer alone knows.
Unapproachable and beyond comprehension is my Lord.
He dwells in every heart and lives near.
He is ever unaffected and is the giver of beings. Rare is the person who understands his own self.
This is the sign of union with the Lord.
That in his mind the man recognises only the True Lord's command.
By walking according to the Master's will man obtains eternal peace, contentment satiation and happiness.
Lord the bestower has given me His hand.
He has annulled all my affliction of birth and death.
Nanak, they whom the Lord has made His slaves, enjoy the pleasure of singing God's praises.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
The world-nurser and the Lord of the universe has shown mercy,
and the Guru's feet I have places within my mind.
That Creator has taken my side and has demolished the abode of adversity.
Within my mind and body the True Lord abides,
and no place appears to be agonising for me.
All the evil-doers and enemies have become friends as I long for but One Lord.
Whatever He does, He does that all by Himself.
By intellect and wisdom one cannot gauge His doings.
Of His saints the Lord Himself is the succourer. He has cast away my doubt and misgiving.
The Lord's lotus feet are the support of His serf.
Day and night he deals in the Name of the pervading God.
In peace and pleasure he sings the praises of the World-Lord. Among all the Master is contained O Nanak.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
True is the palace, where-in the True Lord is remembered.
Illustrious is the soul which chants the God's glories.
Beautiful is the land where God's slaves abide. I am a sacrifice unto the True Name.
The worth of the greatness of the True Lord cannot be known,
The Lord's power and bounty can not be described.
Thine slaves, O Master! live by ever thinking of Thee. The True Gurbani their souls enjoy.
The praising of the True One is obtained by the greatest good fortune.
Through the Guru's grace God's eulogies are sung.
They who are imbued with Thy love are pleasing to Thee O Lord! The True Name is their distinguishing mark.
No one knows the limits of the True Lord.
In all the places and interspaces that True One is contained.
Nanak ever reflect on the True Being who is the searcher of hearts and the knower of everything.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Beautiful is the night and illustrious the day,
when man repeats the Nectarean Name and associates with the saints' congregation.
Fruitful is the mortal's life there where a moment a trice and an instant of his passes in the Lord's meditation.
By remembering the Name all the sins are effaces,
and within and without the Lord God keeps man's company.
Fear, dread and doubt the Perfect Guru has dispelled from within me and I now see God in all the places.
The Lord is omnipotent, great lofty and infinite.
The nine treasures and stores of His Name are brimful.
In the Beginning in the end and in the middle is that Lord. Another I draw not near me.
Take pity on me, O Beneficent to the poor!
The beggar asks for the dust of the feet of the saints.
Serf Nanak, prays Thee, O Lord! for the grant of this gift, for ever and aye he may continue meditating on Thee.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Here Thou art and here-after Thou Thyself shalt be.
All the human beings and other creatures are established by Thee.
Without Thee there is no other, O Creator! Thou art my support and protection.
The tongue is alive by ever uttering the Lord's Name.
The Supreme Lord Master is the searcher of hearts.
He, who serves the Lord, obtains peace. He loses not his human life in the game of chance.
Thine worshipper, who obtains the panacea of Thy Name,
gets rid of the diseases of many births.
God's praises do thou sing, O man! day and night. This is the fruitful avocation of human life.
Casting His merciful glance, the Lord has regenerated His slave.
In every heart he salutes the Exalted Lord.
Without the One Master there is no other second. Nanak this is the essence of all wisdom, O Father.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
My soul and body are dyed with the beloved pervading God.
All that is mine, I sacrifice unto Him.
All long day sing thou the praises of the world-Lord and forget Him not even for the duration of a breath.
He alone is friend intimate and beloved,
who meditates on Lord's Name in the society of saints.
In the congregation of the righteous thou shalt cross the world-ocean and cut death's noose.
The four cardinal boons are obtained by God's service.
The elysian tree is the meditation of the unseen and inscrutable Lord.
My Sins of lust and wrath the Guru has cut off and my hopes have been fulfilled.
The mortal who is blessed with the perfect Good fortune,
meets the world -sustainer in the guild of the saints.
Nanak he within whose mind the Name abides is acceptable whether he is a householder or an anchoret.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
By remembering God's Name I have gathered peace of the heart.
Showering His benediction the Lord causes His saints to be renowned.
Joining the society of the his saints I have repeated God's Name and my ailment of indolence has disappeared.
O brother! The Lord, in whose home are the nine treasures,
meets him who has pre-natal good actions to his credit.
The Supreme Lord is brimful with Divine knowledge and meditation. The Master is potent to do every thing.
In a moment the Lord is the establisher and disestablisher.
God Himself is one and Himself many.
No filth attaches to the beneficent Lord the life of the universe. By seeing His sight the pang of separation departs.
Attaching to His skirt, the Lord has saved the entire world.
He Himself causes His Name to be repeated.
The Guru's boat man finds by God's grace. Such good luck is pre-ordained for him, O Nanak!
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Men do that which the Lord Himself directs them to do.
Wherever He keeps that is the good place.
He is wise and he is honourable to whom the Lord's order seems sweet.
All the creation He has strung in one thread.
He, whom God attaches, is attached to His feet.
He in whose inverse heart lotus the Divine Light dawns sees the pure Lord amongst all.
Thy glory Thou alone knowest.
Thine ownself Thou Thyself recognisest.
I am a sacrifice unto Thine saints who have ground their lust wrath and avarice.
Thou art without enmity and Thine saints are pure.
By seeing whom all the sins depart.
Nanak lives by remembering and repeating Lord's Name and his shameless doubt and dread have departed.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
If some one asks for a false gift,
he takes not an instant to die.
He, who on meeting the Guru, ever serves the Lofty Lord is said to be immortal.
He, whose mind is attached with Lord's affectionate meditation,
he sings His praises night and day and ever remains wakeful.
On whose brow the receipt of this gift is recorded taking by the arm the Lord blends him with Himself.
The God's lotus feet abide in the heart of His devotees.
Without the mercy of the Exalted Lord all are beguiled.
For the dust of pious person's feet I ever long for The Name of the True Lord is my ornament.
Standing up and sitting down the Lord God's praises do I sing.
By meditating on whom I obtain the Eternal Groom.
Unto Nanak the Lord has become merciful. What Thou dost O Master! I willingly endure.
Majh Rag, Canto, First Guru.
There is but one God. By the favour of the True Guru He is obtained.
All are imbued with Gurbani by the Lord's order,
and are called to the True Court in His presence.
O Merciful to the poor, my True Master! by Thy truth my mind is appeased.
I am a sacrifice my soul is a sacrifice unto those who are adorned with God's Name.
The Nectarean Name is ever the peace-giver. By Guru's instruction it abides in man's mind. Pause.
None is mine, nor am I of any one.
The True Lord of the three worlds is mine.
By taking pride good many have died. By doing evil deeds the mortal has to repent.
He, who recognises Lord's command utters His praises,
and through Guru's hymns gets glorified with His Name.
Everyone's account is at the True Court, and one is exonerated through the beauteous Name.
The mistaken apostate finds no place of rest.
Bound at death's door he bears the brunt.
Without the Name man has no companion or comrade. He is saved only by remembering the Name.
The false mammon-worshipper likes not the Truth.
Bound to duality he comes and goes.
The scribed writ no one can erase Through the Guru is one emancipated.
In her mother's home the bride recognises not her Bridegroom.
Through falsehood separated she bewails loudly.
Defrauded by demerits her Lord's audience she obtains not. Through virtues are the sins forgiven.
She, who knows her Beloved in her parent's home,
through the Guru comes to understand the reality and meditates on her Lord.
Her coming and going is inhibited and annulled and she is absorbed in the True Name.
Through the Guru man realises the Lord and describes the indescribable one.
The True Lord likes but truth fullness.
Nanak makes the true supplication. The True Lord is met by chanting His glories.
Majh, Third Guru.
By the Lord's grace, is the True Guru met.
Then alone does the man apply his attention to the God's service and fix his mind on His Name.
By stilling his ego, man attains eternal peace and sheds his love of mammon.
I am a sacrifice, my soul is a sacrifice and I am devoted unto my True Guru.
By the Guru's instructions, Divine light has shone on me, and night and day, I sing God's praises. Pause.
If man searches his body and soul, then, does he find God's Name.
He restrains his wandering mind and keeps it under control.
Gurbani he sings night and day and is naturally engaged in Lord's devotional service.
In this body are countless articles.
Through the Guru, if I attain to Truth, then alone I can see them.
He, who soars above the nine gates, hears the playing of celestial strain of the tenth one and is emancipated.
True is the Lord and True is his Name.
By the Guru's grace I place Him in my mind.
He, who night and day every remains imbued with Lord's love, obtains the Knowledge of the True Court.
She who understands not the significance of virtue and sin,
is attached with duality, is lost in illusion.
The ignorant, blind man knows not the right path, and come and goes again to again and again.
From the Guru's service, I have obtained everlasting peace,
and my egotism and egoism are stopped and stayed.
By Guru's instructions, my darkness is dispelled and the adamantine shutters are opened.
Stilling my self-conceit, I have placed God in my mind.
On Guru's feet, I have ever fixed my mind.
On Guru's favour, my soul and body are rendered pure, and the immaculate Name do I meditate upon.
From birth to death I have decided my entire life for Thine service, O Lord!
Thou givest glory to him, whom Thou forgivest.
O Nanak! do Thou ever contemplate over the Lord's Name shall bedeck thy birth and death.
Majh, Third Guru.
My Lord is immaculate, inaccessible and infinite.
Without a balance, He weighs the world.
He, who is resigned to the Guru's will, understands God By uttering His praises, the mortal is observed in the praise worthy Lord.
I am a sacrifice, my soul is a sacrifice unto those who abide God's Name in their hearts.
They who are attached to Truth, remain wakeful, night and day, and obtain honour in the True Court. Pause.
God Himself hears and Himself sees.
On whom He casts His merciful glance, that person becomes acceptable.
He, whom the Lord Himself touches, gets, attached with Him, and through the Guru, practices truth.
Whose support can seek, he, whom the Lord Himself misleads?
What so pre-prescribed, that can not be erased.
Very fortunate are they, whom the True Guru meets. Through the perfect destiny is the True Guru met.
In her father's home the bride is ever in sleep.
Her husband she has forgotten and owing to evil deeds is she forsaken.
Night and day she ever wanders bewailing. Sans her spouse she gets not sleep.
One comes to realise her Lord, the giver of peace.
who in this world, subduing her ego, understand the verity of the Gurbani.
Beautiful is her couch, she ever enjoys her beloved and makes the ornamentation of truthfulness.
The Lord has created eighty four lakhs of species of living beings.
On whom He casts His merciful glance, him He causes to meet the Guru.
Washing off his sins, His slave is ever pure, and at the True Court looks illustrious with the Name.
When account is called, O who would then answer?
No solace shall then accrue counting two and three (by rendering the account).
The True Lord Himself grants pardon, and having forgiven blends with his ownself.
He Himself does and Himself causes to be done.
Through the perfect Guru's instruction, He is met.
Nanak through the Name greatness is obtained. The Lord Himself unites in His union.
Majh, Third Guru.
By Himself, the unique Lord is moving about undiscernibly.
If I see Him, through the Guru, then is his soul of mine refreshed.
Shedding desire and placing the One Lord in the mind, I have obtained the celestial bliss.
I am a sacrifice, my soul is sacrifice unto those who fix their attention on one God.
By Guru's instruction, my mind has come to into its only home, and his dyed in the true dye. Pause.
This world has gone astray. Thou Thyself hast put it on wrong track.
Forgetting the One Lord it is engrossed in duality.
Night and day, it ever wanders beguiled by doubt, and without the Name suffers agony.
They, who are imbued with the love of Destiny Scriber,
through the service of the Guru, are known through the four ages.
He who the Lord Himself grants greatness is merged in God's Name.
Being in Love with wealth one thing not of God.
Bound down in the city of death's myrmidon, he endures hardships.
Blind and deaf, as the perverse person is He sees nothing and is putrefied in sin.
Some whom, Thou attachest with Thy love, are imbued in Thine affection.
Through affectionate devotion, they become pleasing to the thy mind, O Lord!
They serve the True Guru, the ever giver of peace and the Lord Himself fulfils all the their desires.
My venerable God! I ever see the asylum.
Thyself Thou forgivest and grantest glory.
The courier of death draws not near him who reflects over the Name of the Lord God.
They who are pleasing to God, night and day remain tinged in his love.
Causing to meet the society of the Saints my Master blends them with Himself.
For ever and aye, O True Lord! I am under Thine protection. Thou Thyself makest me know the Truth.
They, who know the Truth, are absorbed in the True One.
God's praises they sing and tell the truth
Nanak, they who are tinged with the Name, remain aloof, and in their own home assume contemplative attitude.
Majh, Third Guru.
He, who dies by Guru's hymns, is deemed to be dead.
Him, death crushes not, nor does agony annoy.
When man hears and merges in truthfulness his light meets and is absorbed in the Supreme Light.
I am a sacrifice my life is a sacrifice unto those who drive glory from God's Name.
By the Guru instruction he, who serves the True Guru and fixes his attention on the True One blends with the Lord. Pause.
Human body is fragile and fragile is the garment which it wears.
Attached to another's love, it obtained not the Lord mansion.
Night and day she ever continues burning and without her Spouse suffers great pain.
Man's body and caste shall not go to the next world.
Where the account is called, there shall be delivered by the practice of truth.
They, who serve the True Guru and wealthy here and hereafter they remain absorbed in the God's Name.
She who makes the decoration of the Lord's fear and love,
by the Guru's grace, obtain His audience in her home.
For ever and aye she enjoys her Beloved night and day and assumes the first dye of madder.
The husband ever abides with all.
By the Guru's favour hardly any one sees Him with his eyes.
My Lord is the most high of the high showing His mercy. He blends the mortal with Himself.
In the love of wealth this world is asleep.
Forgetting the Name it is ultimately ruined.
He who has made it sleep, shall awaken it. By Guru's instruction it obtains understanding.
He who drinks Nectar, dispels his illusion.
By the Guru's grace, he obtains the state of salvation.
He who is dyed with the Lord's worship, is for ever detached. Stilling his-self, he is united with his Master.
Thyself Thou created the beings and engages them to their jobs.
To eighty four lakh of existences. Thyself thou reaches sustenance.
Nanak, they who meditate on the Name are tinctured with truth and do the work which pleases Him
Majh, Third Guru.
Within the mortal are produced jewels and rubies.
By the Guru's instruction, man assays them the gets them assayed.
They who possess truth, utter the truth and apply the touchstone of truth to everything.
I am a sacrifice, my life is a sacrifice unto those who implant Gurbani in their heart.
In worldly darkness, they obtain the Pure One and their light is blended with the Lord's. Pause.
Within this human body are numberless vistas.
In it is the extremely immaculate Name of the inaccessible and infinite Lord.
He alone, who is resigned to Guru's will, obtains it, Him the Lord pardons and unites with Himself.
My master impresses nothing but truth.
By the Guru's grace, man attaches his mind with truth.
The Truest of the true, pervades everywhere. The True persons merge with the True.
The True Master is my care-free Beloved.
He is the extirpator of sins and evil deeds.
With love and affection ever remember the Lord. His fear and devotional service, He implants in man
True is thy worship O man! if it pleases the True One.
The Lord Himself grants it and regrets not afterwards.
To all the beings, Lord alone is the bestower, Smiting man with His Divine word, he Lord revives him again.
Without Thee, O God! none is mine.
My God, Thee I serve and Thee I praise.
Thyself unite me with Thee, O True Lord! Through perfect destiny Thou art obtained.
For me, there is none else like Thee.
By Thine gracious glance is my body blessed.
Night and day, God takes care and protects us, Through the Guru we are absorbed in the Lord.
As great as Thou, I see none else.
Thou Thyself didst create the world and Thyself shalt destroy it.
Thou Thyself createst, destroyest and be-deekest Nanak with Thy Name the mortal is embellished.
Majh, Third Guru.
Of all the hearts, the Lord Himself is the enjoyer.
The unseen, unapproachable and unlimited Lord is pervading every where.
Under the Guru's guidance, by remembering my Lord God, man is easily absorbed in the True Master.
I am sacrifice and my soul is a sacrifice unto those who implant the Guru's hymns in their mind.
If man understands Gurbani, he, then grapples with his mind and stilling his desire the man merges in the Lord. Pause.
The blind apostate has no knowledge or hint world.
The blind apostate has no knowledge or him of it.
He, who gets resigned to Guru's will, protects his home. The five arch adversaries are destroyed with the Guru's instruction.
Some pious persons are ever imbued in the love of the True Lord.
Instinctively they serve their Lord, and night and day are intoxicated with His love.
They, who meeting the beloved Guru, sing the praises of the True Lord, obtain honour in God's Court.
Firstly the One Lord created His own-self,
secondly the sense of duality and thirdly the three phased mammon.
The most high fourth stage is reached by the Guruwards, who practise nothing but Truth.
All which is pleasing to the True Lord, is true,
He who recognises Truth, merge in the Lord.
The Guruward's life-routine is the True One's service. He goes and blends with the True One.
Without the True Lord there is no other second.
Attached with secular love, the world is greatly distracted to death.
He, who gets resigned to the Guru's will knows but one Lord, and by serving the One procures peace.
All the men and other living beings are under Thine protection.
Placing the chessmen on the chessboard, Thou Thyself seest the imperfect and perfect ones.
Thou Thyself makest men do various deeds night and day and Thyself unitest them with saints' congregation.
Thou Thyself unitest and beholdest just close at hand.
Thyself Thou art fully contained amongst all.
Nanak, Thou art pervading all by Thyself. The Guruwards obtain this understanding.
Majh, Third Guru.
The Nectaream Gurbani is sweet.
Through the Guru, scarcely any one tastes and sees it.
He quaffs the supreme elixir, into him dawns the Divine Light, and at the True Court he sings the Godly Word.
I am a sacrifice, my soul is a sacrifice unto those who attach their mind to the Guru's feet.
The True Guru is the true tank of ambrosia, Bathing there-in the man is washed clean of his sin's filth. Pause.
Thine limits, O True Lord no one knows.
By the Guru's grace, some rare person fixes his mind on Thee.
By praising Thee I am never satiated, so much hunger do I feel for the True Name.
I see but one Lord and no other second.
By the Guru's favour I drink the Name, Nactar.
With Gurbani my thirst is quenched, and I am naturally absorbed in Eternal peace.
The invaluable wealth of God's Name he discards deeming it as straw
The blind perverse person is attached with another's love.
As he sows so is the fruit he obtains. Even in dream he shall not obtain peace.
The person to whom the Lord shows His mercy attains to Him.
The Guru's hymns he places within his mind.
Night and day he ever abides in the Lord's fear, and destroying other fears he dispels his doubt.
By annulling his illusion he obtains the eternal peace.
By the Guru's grace he attains to the Supreme Status.
His heart is pure and pure is his speech. God's praises he instinctively sings.
Man recites Hindu mythical books, treatises on philosophy and vedas.
Deluded by doubt he understands not the reality.
Sans serving the Sat Guru he obtains not peace, and misery upon misery he earns.
Himself the Lord does everything. With whom can say one lodge a complaint?
The mortal may grumble if he were to err.
Nanak, Himself the Lord does and causes to be done everything. Repeating His Name man merges in the Name.
Majh, Third Guru.
Himself the Lord effortlessly imbues the mortal,
and by the Guru's instruction dyes him in His affection.
His soul and body are tinctured and his tongue assumes the red dye of tulip. Through the Lord's fear and love this colour is adopted.
I am a sacrifice, my soul is a sacrifice unto those, who gather in the Fearless One in their heart.
By the Guru's grace I have meditated on the Dauntless Lord and by his Gurbani have crossed the poisonous world-ocean. Pause.
The perverse idiot practises cleverness.
Inspite of his bathing and washing, he becomes not acceptable.
As he came so shall he go repenting over the sins he committed.
The blind apostate sees nothing.
With death written for him he comes into this world, but he understands it not.
The wayward person performs religious rites but obtained not the Name, and without the Name he loses his human life.
The practice of truth is the essence of the Guru's teaching.
Through the perfect Guru the door of salvation is obtained.
Night and day the Guru preaches God's Gurbani Imbued with the True Lord, dyes others in the Lord's Love.
Tinctured with the God's elixir my tongue makes merry.
My soul and body are bewitched with the Lord's sublime love.
I have easily obtained my darling Beloved and am naturally absorbed in the supreme bliss.
He who has Lord's love within him, sings the God's praises,
and by the Guru's instruction gets easily absorbed in the spiritual bliss.
I am ever a sacrifice unto those who dedicate their mind to the Guru's service.
The True Lord is pleased with nothing but truth.
By the Guru's grace man's mind is steeped with the Lord's Love.
Sitting in an auspicious place the saint chants the God's glories, and the Lord Himself causes him to accept His will as True.
He on whom the Master casts His merciful glance, obtains His Name.
By the Guru's grace, his egotism departs.
Nanak, he, within whose mind God's Name abides, obtains honour in the True Court.
Majh, Third Guru.
By serving the True Guru, grand glory is procured,
and venerable God automatically comes to dwell in the mind.
The Reverend Lord is the fruit bearing plant. The thirst of him, who quaffs his Nectar is quenched.
I am a sacrifice, my life is a sacrifice unto him, who unites me in the union of the saints' congregation.
God Himself unites the mortal with the society of the righteous. Under the Guru's instruction man sings God's praises. Pause.
I serve the True Guru, whose speech is dear unto me,
and who has colonised God's Name within my mind.
The immaculate Lord removes the filth of pride and the mortal receives honour in the True Court.
Without the Guru, the Name cannot be obtained.
The perfect persons and strivers miss it and bewail.
Without serving the Guru, peace is not procured. Through perfect good fortune the Guru is obtained.
This mind is a mirror. Hardly any saint beholds himself there-in.
Rust attaches not to it if man burns his self-conceit.
The celestial strain resounds through the pure Name. Through the Guru's instruction the man is absorbed in the True One.
Sans the Sat Guru, God cannot in any way be seen.
Showing his benediction, the Guru himself has shown me the Lord.
All by Himself the Lord Himself, is pervading everywhere. By Divine knowledge man is easily absorbed in Him.
He, who is pious, embraces affection with the One Lord.
By the Guru's instruction he burns to ashes this doubt that there is another too.
Within his body be trades and traffics and obtains the treasure of the True Name.
The Guruward's exalted daily routine is to sing God's praises.
The true Sikh of the Guru obtains the gate of salvation.
Imbued with Lord's love, he, night and day, sings His praises, and is called unto His palace.
True Guru, the gives, is met when God causes man to meet him.
By perfect destiny, God's Name is enshrined in the man's mind.
Nanak, the greatness of God's Name is obtained by chanting the excellences of the True Lord.
Majh, Third Guru.
If man loses his ownself, then does he obtain everything.
By the Guru's teaching he comes to cherish true affection for the Lord.
Truth he trades in, truth he amasses and in truthfulness he deals.
I am devoted, my soul is devoted unto those, who ever sing God's praises.
I am Thine thou art my Lord. Thou grantest glory to him who seeks Thy Name's shelter. Pause.
That time and moment are all beauteous,
when the True Lord becomes pleasing to my mind.
By serving the True one, true magnificence is obtained, and from the Guru's grace the True Lord is met.
The food of Divine love is obtained when the True Guru is mightily pleased.
One forgets other relishes when he enshrines God's essence in his mind.
Truthfulness, contentment and eternal peace, the mortal receives from the hymns of the perfect Guru.
The ignorant, blind, fools perform not the service of the True Guru.
How will they then obtain the door of deliverance?
They repeatedly die and are reborn and again and again they come. At death's door they suffer the strokes.
If they realise the relish of God's Name, then alone can they under-stand themselves.
Unblemished is the speech of those who recite Gurbani.
By serving the True Lord, they attain to the eternal peace and enshrine in their mind the nine treasures of the Lord's Name.
Beautiful is that place which is pleasing to God's mind.
That alone is the congregation of the saints, seated where-in, one sings God's praises.
The immaculate heavenly music plays for them who night and day eulogise the True God.
False is the capital and false the ostentation of apostates.
They practise falsehood and suffer great agony.
Deluded by doubt they wander day and night and lose their life in going and coming.
The True Lord is exceedingly dear unto me.
The hymns of the perfect Guru are my main-stay.
Nanak, they who obtain the greatness of God's Name, deem pain and pleasure alike.
Majh, Third Guru.
Thine are the (four) sources of creation and Thine the (four) stages of speech.
Without God's Name all are deluded by doubt.
From the Guru's service God's Name is obtained. Without the True Guru no one can receive the Lord's Name.
I am a sacrifice, my life is a sacrifice unto those who fix their attention with God.
Through devotion unto the Guru. True God is obtained, and He easily comes to abide in the man's mind. Pause.
If man serves the Sat Guru he then receives everything.
As is the aspiration for the sake of which he takes to service, so is the reward, he reaps.
The True Guru is the giver of all the things. Through perfect good fortune he is met.
This filthy mind remembers not the one Lord.
It is soiled within immense dust of duality.
The egoist repairs to river-banks, shrines, and foreign lands and gathers still more filth of pride.
If he serves the Sat Guru his dirt is removed then.
One, who fixes his mind on God, remains dead whilst alive.
Pure is the True Lord, and no filth attaches to Him, He, who gets attached to the Truth, comes to wash off his filth.
Without the Guru there is pitch darkness.
The ignorant man is spiritually blind. For him there is inky darkness.
The worms of ordure commit filthy deeds and then putrefy in wickedness.
By waiting upon the Emancipated one is himself emancipated.
Through God's Name self-hood and secular love depart.
Night and day serve the Honourable True Lord. Through perfect good fortune the Guru is obtained.
The Lord Himself grants pardon and unites in His union.
From the perfect Guru man obtains the Name treasure.
By dwelling on the True Name the soul is sanctified for aye, and by serving the True One sorrow is driven away.
The Lord is ever close at hand. Deem Him not distant.
Under Guru's instruction realise God within thee.
Nanak, through God's Name greatness is attained, and from the perfect Guru the Name is received.
Majh, Third Guru.
He who is true here, is true hereafter as well.
True is the soul that is absorbed in the True Name.
The True Lord he serves, True Name he repeats and nothing but Truth he practises.
I am devoted, my soul is devoted unto him who places the True Name in his mind.
He serves the True being, sings the praises of the True Being and gets absorbed in the True Being. Pause.
The Pandit reads the religious texts but tastes not their relish.
Owing to duality his mind wanders in worldly valuables.
The love of wealth has ousted his understanding and committing misdeeds he regrets.
If man meets the True Guru, then does he obtain reality,
and places God's Name in his heart.
He, who dies with God's Name and subdues his mind, obtains the door of emancipation.
He effaces his sins and annuls his anger,
who keeps Gurbani clasped to his heart.
They, who are imbued with truth, remain ever detached and stilling their self-hood, they unite their soul with the lord.
Within the mortal is the Name jewel. It is obtained if the Guru makes it accessible.
Otherwise three tempered mind is engrossed in the three qualities of mammon.
Reading and reciting, the Pandits and silent sages have grown weary, but they know not the worth of fourth state.
The Lord Himself dyes by importing the dye of His love.
Only those persons, who are imbued with Gurbani, are so dyed.
He, who has adopted the dye of the love of the exceedingly comely Lord, sings God's praises with great relish.
For the Guruward that True One is the wealth, miracle and self-mortification.
The Guruward acquires Divine knowledge and through God's Name gets emancipated.
The pious person does righteous deeds and is absorbed in the Truest of the true.
The True Guru-Sikh realises that the Lord creates and having created Himself destroy.
Of the Guruward the Lord Himself is the caste and all honour.
Nanak, the Sikh resigned to the Guru's will meditates on the Name and merges in the Name of the Name-incarnate Lord.
Majh, Third Guru.
The creation and deluge occur through the Lord's Word.
Through the Word the creation evolves again.
Guru's slave knows that the True Lord Himself dies everything. The Guru's ward realises that having created He merges all in Himself.
I am a sacrifice, my soul is a sacrifice unto those who enshrine the perfect Guru in their mind.
Through the Guru man obtains peace and performs Lord's devotional service day and night. Uttering His praises he merges in the praise-worthy One. Pause.
The Guruward sees God on the earth. The Guru's slave recognises Him in water.
Guru's beloved realises Him playing wonderous games through wind and fire.
He, who repeatedly dies and is re-born, is without the Guru. The one without the Guru continues coming and going.
That Creator has set a play in motion.
In the frame work of the human body He has put all the goods.
Pierced through with His Name, some rare person obtains the Lord's presence. Such a bride the Master calls into His mansion.
True is the Banker, and true are His traders.
Through infinite love of the Guru they purchase the True Name.
Truth they deal in, truth they practise and nothing but Truth they earn.
How can any one have merchandise without the capital?
The wayward persons are all gone astray.
Without the Name's wealth all go empty-handed, and going empty-handed, they suffer pain.
Some deal in the True Name through the love of Gurbani.
They save themselves and save their entire lineage as wall.
Acceptable is the advent of those who meeting their Beloved obtain peace.
Just within is the thing but the fool searches for it without.
The blind apostates roam about like demons.
Where there is the thing, from there none obtains it. The way-wards are gone amiss in doubt.
The Lord Himself summons and bestows His Name.
The bride attains to eternal peace in her Groom's mansion.
Nanak, he, who himself continually hears and remembers God's Name, obtains the glory of the Name.
Majh, Third Guru.
The True Guru has given the True piece of advice.
Meditate on God who will be thy succourer at the end.
The inaccessible, incomprehensible and unborn Lord in without a master. Through the love of the True Guru. He is obtained.
I am devoted, my life is devoted unto him who casts away his self-conceit.
If the mortal effaces his ego, then does he obtain God and gets easily merged with the Lord. Pause.
I have done the deed which was pre-ordained for me.
By rendering service unto the True Guru I have procured the eternal peace.
Without good destiny, one finds not the Guru, Through His Name the Lord unites him in His union.
The Guruward remains unaffected in this world.
He has the support of the Guru and the main-stay of the Name.
Who can play aggressive with him, the Guru's True Sikh? The aggressor automatically perishes and writhes in pain.
The blind apostate has no understanding.
He is the self-killer and the world-butcher.
By continually slandering others he carries a great load. Without wages he carries other's load.
This World is a garden and my Lord is its Gardener.
He ever takes care of it. No part of it is exempt from His care.
As is the odour which the Lord infuses into the flower so does it prevail there-in. The fragrant flower is known by its fragrance.
The perverse is disease-stricken in this world.
He has forgotten the inaccessible, and illimitable Lord, the giver of peace.
The miserable ever wander lamenting. Without the Guru they obtain not peace.
He, who created them, knows their condition.
If the Lord Himself shows mercy, then, man realises His command.
As is the disposition God puts in the mortal so does he behave. The Lord Himself is potent to rot out such disposition.
Without that True Lord, I recognise not any other.
He whom he attaches with Himself, becomes pure.
Nanak, the Lord's Name abides within his mind. He, unto whom the Lord donates His Name, attains to it.
Majh, Third Guru.
By enshrining in the heart the Nectarean name of God,
all the pain of egotism and egoism is eliminated.
By ever praising the ambrosial Gurbani the man obtains immortalising Name-Nectar.
I am dedicated, my life is dedicated unto those who place in their mind the regenerating hymns of the Guru.
He, who enshrines in his heart the immortalising Gurbani, begins to meditate on the Nectarean Name. Pause.
Those who continually utter the Nectar-Name with mouth,
always see and assay this Amrit everywhere with their eyes.
The Nectar discourse of the Lord he ever utters day and night, and repeating it makes others hear.
Imbued with the ambrosial love of the Lord he fixes his attention on Him.
The Nectar (Name) he receives by the Guru's grace.
The elixir (Name) day and night he repeats with his tongue, and his soul and body are satiated. with the elixir (Name)
God does that what is not even in the man's specter.
His flat no one can undo.
By his sweet will the Nectarean Gurbani has become prevalent, and by his will one quaffs the Nectarean Gurbani.
Wonderful are the doings of God, the Creator.
This mistaken mind goes round in the circuit of transmigration.
Who focuses his mind on the ambrosial Gurbani, for him is played the music of the Nectarean Name.
The counterfeit and the genuine. Thou Thyself hast created.
Thou Thyself assayeth all the mortals.
Having assayed the true Thou consigneth to Thine treasury and the false Thou misleadest in doubt.
How should I behold and how eulogise Thee?
By the Guru's favour through Gurbani I praise Thee, O Lord!
In Thine will the Nectar abides and in Thy will Thou makest man quaff the Nectar.
Ambrosia is the Lord and ambrosia is God's Gurbani.
By serving the True Guru, Gurbani gets permeated in the mind.
Nanak the Name Nectar is ever the peace-giver. By drinking the Name Nectar all the hunger is satiated.
Majh, Third Guru.
The Name-Nectar rains in the natural way.
Some rare pious person receives it.
They, who drink the Name-Nectar are ever sated, showing His mercy God quenches their thirst.
I am a sacrifices, my life is a sacrifice unto the pious persons who make others drink the Name-Nectar.
The tongue ever remains imbued in the Lord's love by tasting the Name-Nectar and instinctively sings God's praises. Pause.
By the Guru's grace some solitary mortal obtains Divine comprehension,
and stilling his duality contracts love with the one Lord.
When God casts His merciful glance the mortal sings His praises then and by His grace merges in Truth.
Over all is Thine grace, O my Lord!
On some it is more and on some less.
Without Thee nothing does happen The Sikhs resigned to the Guru's will achieve this understanding.
The Guruwards ponder over this reality that,
Thine treasures are brimful with Nectar.
Without serving the True Guru none receives the Name Nectar. By the Guru's grace it is procured.
The person, who serves the Sat Guru, is beauteous.
The Name-Nectar has charmed his inner mind.
With the ambrosial Gurbani his soul and body are tinged and the ambrosial Gurbani he instinctively hear.
The misled apostate is ruined through secular love.
The Name, he utters not and dies by taking poison.
Night and day his abode is ever in ordure. Without the Lord's service he wastes awry his life.
He, whom the Lord Himself causes to drink, quaffs the Name Nectar.
By the Guru's grace he enshrines affection for the Lord.
The perfect Lord is Himself fully-pervading everywhere. Under Guru's instruction. He is discerned.
That immaculate Lord is all by Himself.
Who created the universe, He Himself shall destroy it.
Nanak, do thou ever remember God's Name Thus shalt thou be easily blended with the True One.
Majh, Third Guru.
They, whom Thou likest, adhere to Truth.
Ever they serve True Lord in the natural way.
Through the True Gurbani they eulogise the True One and meet the society of the righteous.
I am devoted, my soul is devoted unto those who chant the glory of the True Master.
They, who meditate on the True Being are imbued with Truth and get absorbed in the Truest of the true. Pause.
Wherever I behold, I find the True Lord at all the places.
By the Guru's grace enshrine Him in my heart.
True is the body of the man whose tongue is tinged with Truth, who hears and with his mouth utters truth.
Stilling her desire the bride blends with her True Spouse,
and with her mind she sees everyone, subject to coming and going.
By serving the True Guru the mortal becomes stable for ever, and secures dwelling in his own home.
By the Guru's instruction I have perceived the Lord within my mind.
The love of worldly valuables, I have burnt with the God's Name
The Truest of the true I behold and admire By the Guru's instruction I obtain the True Lord.
They who are tinged with truth, are blessed with the true love of the Lord.
They, who remember the Name of God, are very fortunate.
The True Lord blends with Himself those, who by joining the saints' congregation, sing His true praises.
We may read the Lord's account if He were within any account.
He is beyond reach and above comprehension. Through the Guru's instruction His knowledge is received.
Night and day praise the True Lord. There is no other way to know His worth.
By reading and reciting men grow weary but they obtain not peace.
By desire they are consumed, and they have no knowledge of it.
Poison they purchase and for the love of poison they are thirsty. By telling lies they eat poison.
Through Guru's grace I know but One God.
Killing duality my soul is absorbed in the True Lord.
Nanak, the One Name alone is prevailing within my mind. By the Guru's grace is the Name received.
Majh, Third Guru.
All the castes and forms are made prevalent by Thee.
Men repeatedly die are reborn and go round in many circuits.
Thou alone art unshakable, un-knowable and unlimited. By the Guru's teachings is Thine understanding imparted.
I am a sacrifice, my life is a sacrifice unto those who enshrine the Name of the pervading God in their mind.
He has no features, marks and colour By the Guru's instruction He causes Himself to be under-stood. Pause.
Amongst all is the light of the One Lord, if some mortal were to realise it.
By serving the True Guru it becomes manifest.
In all the non-apparent and apparent places He is diffused. In the Supreme Light the man's light ultimately merges.
Man is burning in the fire of desire,
and is lost in darkness due to arrogance and excessive egotism.
He repeatedly goes, comes and loses his honour. His life he wastes away in vain.
Rare is the person who under-stands Gurbani.
When man effaces his self-conceit, then does he come to acquire the knowledge of the three worlds.
Then he remains dead in life and dies not again. He rather easily blends with the true Lord.
He fixes not his mind then in worldly valuables,
Who remains absorbed in the Guru's hymns for ever.
He eulogises the True Lord who is contained in all the hearts, and in All-truth he looks beautiful.
I praise the True One who is ever present,
and who's mind is filled with the Guru's hymns.
Through the Guru's grace the True Master is beheld, and from the True Being one gathers solace.
The True Lord remains permeated in the mind.
The True One is ever permanent He comes and goes not.
The man, who gets attached with the True Master is pure. By the Guru's teaching he blends with the True One.
I praise the True One and naught else.
By serving whom eternal peace is obtained.
Nanak, they who are imbued with God's Name are the deep deliberators. They practise nothing but Truth.
Majh, Third Guru.
Pure is the Gurbani and pure the Guru's utterance,
Immaculate is the Lord's light which is contained amongst all.
Consecrated is the Guru's Bani where-in is contained God's praise. By meditating on the blotless Lord, one washed off his filth.
I am devoted my soul is devoted unto those who enshrine in their mind, God the giver of peace.
I praise the Pure One under the Guru's instruction and by hearing the Guru's word I quenched my thirst. Pause.
When the immaculate Name is enshrined in the mind the body,
then the mind and soul are rendered pure and the love of mammon departs.
He who ever sings the pure praises of the True Lord, the holy celestial strain resounds within him.
The immaculate elixir is obtained from the Guru.
Where self-conceit is eradicated from within there stays not the love of worldly valuables.
Pure is the Divine comprehension and extremely pure the meditation of him who imbibes the pure Gurbani in his mind.
He who serves the Pure One becomes pure.
The filth of ego he washes off with the Guru's hymns.
In Him sounds the incessant music of the pure Gurbani and he obtains honour in the True Court.
From the immaculate Lord all become immaculate.
Pure becomes the soul which weaves in itself God's Name.
With the pious Name are attached the very fortunate and through the pious Name they look beauteous.
He is pure who looks adorned with God's Name.
The Pure Name bewitches his soul and body.
To the True Name no filth ever attaches. The face is made (rendered) bright with the True Name.
The mind becomes filthy on account of profane love.
Dirty is his cooking-square and polluted his adobe.
By eating the ill-gotten good the evil minded man then increases the filth of his sins and because of sin's filth suffers pain.
The impure and the pure are all through and through under Lord's command.
They are immaculate who are pleasing to the True God.
Nanak the Name abides within the mind of the Guruwards and they cast off the filth of sins.
Majh, Third Guru.
Lord of the world is bright and bright are His saint-swans.
Through them my soul, speech and desire are rendered elegant.
The saints minds are pure their faces are ever beautiful and the very pure name they meditate upon.
I am a sacrifice and my soul is a sacrifice unto those who sing the praises of the Master of the universe.
O mortal repeat thou the Master's Name day and night and preach the Lord's excellences and Gurbani. Pause.
He, who sings of God with natural ease,
becomes bright through the Guru's fear and his dirt of ego departs.
He ever abides in bliss performs the Lord's service day and night and hears and sings God's praises.
Fix thy dancing mind in the Lord's service,
and by the Guru's instruction, attune thy mind with the Supreme mind.
Make the stilling of love of mammon thy true and perfect tune and set thyself advancing to Gurbani.
Even if one shouts aloud and shakes his body,
the death's myrmidon spies anyone who is attached to wealth.
The love of valuables makes this mind dance and the deceit of heart causes man to suffer agony.
When through the Guru, God Himself causes the man to perform His service,
his body and soul are naturally imbued with the love of Him.
The service of the pious person within whom the Gurbani resounds and celestial strain plays gains acceptance.
An apostate beats time and plays upon many musical instruments,
but none hears of enshrines them in mind.
For the sake of mammon he sets a stage and dances. Through duality he suffers agony.
He whose heart is imbued with the Lord's love, is emancipated.
By controlling his sex-organ the mortal finds the way to truth and self0restraint.
Under the Guru's instruction he ever meditates on God. This devotion is pleasing to Him.
It is by the Guru's instruction that the Lord's devotional service is obtained in the four ages.
By no others means the Lord's devotional service can any one obtain.
Nanak the Lord's Name is attained to by the Guru's service and by fixing one's mind on the Guru's feet.
Majh, Third Guru.
The True Lord I serve and the True Lord I admire.
With the True Name pain never over-takes man.
They, who serve the Giver of peace, gather peace, and enshrine the Guru's wisdom in their heart.
I am a sacrifice my life is a sacrifice unto those who easily enter into the trance of equipoise.
They who serve God ever look graceful and illustrious are their magnificence and intellect. Pause.
Everyone calls himself a worshipper of Thine.
They alone are Thy worshippers who are pleasing to Thy mind O master!
By means of the True Gurbani they eulogise Thee and imbues with Thine affection they perform Thine devotional service.
All are Thine, O my venerable True God!
When man meets the Exalted Guru, his circuit of transmigration comes to and end then.
When Thou willest Thou then mergest the mortal in Thy Name and Thou Thyself makest him repeat Thy Name.
By the Guru's instruction I have enshrined God within my mind.
Weal, woe and entire worldly love I have rooted out.
with One Lord's love I am ever imbued and God's Name I have places in my mind.
The devotees are tinged with Thy love and are ever in Thy joy, O Lord!
The nine treasures of the Name are enshrines in their mind.
By perfect good destiny they attain to the True Guru who through the Name unites them with the Lord's union.
Thou art merciful and ever the peace giver.
Thou Thyself unitest man with Thee and through the Guru art thou known.
Thou Thyself givest the glory of Thy Name the mortal obtains peace.
Ever and ever, O True Lord! I praise Thee.
Through the Guru I have realised that there is no other second.
With One Lord my mind remains merged. When man grows fond of the Lord He comes and meets him in the mind.
He who gets resigned to the Guru's will eulogises the Master.
The True Lord is carefree.
Nanak, by the Guru's gospel the Name abides within the mind and the man gets united with God.
Majh, Third Guru.
Thine devotees look beautiful in Thy True Court, O Lord!
Through the Guru's instruction they are bedecked with the name.
Day and night they ever abide in bliss and by uttering His praises are absorbed in the praise -worthy Lord.
I am devoted and my soul is devoted unto those who hear and enshrine the Name in their mind.
The Reverend True God the highest of the high removes their pride and true blends them with Himself. Pause.
The honourable Master is True and true is His Name.
By the Guru's grace a few He blends with Himself.
Under the Guru's instruction they who meet God separate not again. They easily get absorbed in the True Lord.
Without Thee O Lord! nothing can be done.
Thou alone doest, beholdest and knowest well Thine doings.
Himself the Creator acts and causes to act and by the Guru's teachings blends man with Himself.
That bride of merit obtains God,
who makes the fear and love of the God (spouse) her ornament.
She who serves the True Guru is ever a happy wife and is absorbed in his true instruction.
They who forget the Name, have no abode or resting place.
They are deluded in doubt like a crow in a deserted house.
Both this world and the next they lose and pass their life in extreme agony.
Writing and writing, paper and ink fail them.
In duality none has ever attained to peace.
Falsehood they write falsehood they practise and are burnt to ashes by fixing their mind upon falsehood.
The pious persons write and deliberate over nothing but truth.
Those true persons gain the gate of salvation.
True is the paper, pen and inkpot of those who writing the truth become absorbed in the True Lord.
My Master by sitting in men's mind is beholding their actions.
The person who by Guru's grace meets God is in the account, (accepted).
Nanak, through God's Name greatness is obtained. From the perfect Guru the Name is procured.
Majh, Third Guru.
It is from the Guru that the light of the all-pervading soul shines.
The filth of ego, attached to man's mind is removed by the Guru's gospel.
The man who night and day remains imbued with the Lord's worship becomes pure and obtains God by performing His devotional service.
I am a sacrifice and my soul is a sacrifice unto those who themselves perform the Lord's worship, and cause others to take to Master's Meditation.
Ever make obeisance unto those pious person who night and day chant God's glories. Pause.
The creator Himself does the deeds.
He yokes man to the task which He likes.
Through perfect Good fortune the Guru's service is performed. From the Guru's service alone solace is procured.
If man lives after eradicating his ego then does he gain something.
By the Guru's grace he enshrines God in his mind.
He, who places the Lord within his heart is ever emancipated and easily gets absorbed in the Master.
Man performs many rituals but gains not deliverance.
In the country he wanders about, and on account of another's love he is ruined.
Vainly does the deceiver lose his life. Without God's Name he undergoes hardships.
He who restrains his wandering mind and keeps it steady,
by the Guru's grace obtains the highest rank.
The True Guru himself unites man in the union of God who by meeting the Beloved, attains to peace.
Some are linked with falsehood and false are the boons they obtain.
In duality they waste their life in vain.
They drown themselves and drown their entire lineage. By telling lies they eat poison.
Some solitary Guruward looks into his mind within this body.
Through affectionate service his ego evaporates.
The adepts strivers and silent ones are tired of cultivating love. They too have not seen the mind in their body.
That Creator Himself makes us work.
What can some one else do? What can be done by his doing.
Nanak he on whom the Lord bestows His Name obtains and treasures it in his heart.
Majh, Third Guru.
Within this body -cavern there is an inexhaustible treasure.
In it abides the unseen and illimitable Lord.
He Himself is unmanifest and Himself manifest. By the Guru's instruction self-conceit is effaced.
I am devoted and my soul is devoted unto those who treasure up the ambrosial Name in their heart.
Of the Nectarean Name the taste is exceedingly sweet. By the Guru's instruction this Name Nectar is quaffed. Pause.
By stilling one's ego the adamantine shutters are opened.
The priceless Name is obtained by the Guru's grace.
Sans the Guru's instruction no one attains to the name. By the favour of the Guru it is implanted in the mind.
The Guru has applied to mind eyes the true salve of Divine knowledge.
Within my mind the Divine light has dawned and the darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
My light has merged with the supreme light. My mind is propitiated and I am blessed with glory in the God's court.
If some one goes beyond one's body (self) in search for the Lord,
he receives not the Name but suffers the great misery of forced-labour.
The blind perverse person realises not. But when he again returns home through the Guru he finds the real thing within.
By the Guru's grace man obtains the True Lord.
within his mind and body he beholds Him and the filth of ego departs.
Sitting in the sublime place ever he sings God s praises and is absorbed in the True Lord.
He who closes his nine doors and restrains his wandering mind,
makes an abode in the Lord's own tenth home.
There the unstruck music plays day and night. Through the Guru's instruction this celestial strain is heard.
Without the Lord's Name there is all darkness within.
One receives not the real thing and ends not the round.
In the True Guru's hand is the key. None else can open the door. By perfect good luck the Guru is met.
In all the non-apparent and apparent places Thou art O Lord!
By obtaining the Guru's grace man comes to have this understanding.
Nanak the Lord's Name do thou ever praise and by the Guru's instruction enshrine it in thy mind.
Majh, Third Guru.
The Guruward Himself meets the Lord and makes others meet Him.
The death spies him not and he suffers not agony.
By dispelling his pride he shatters all his shackles and through the Guru is adorned with God's Name.
I am a sacrifice and my life is a sacrifice unto those who look graceful with God's Name.
Guru's true Sikh, sings, Guru's true Sikh dances and fixes his mind with God. Pause.
The Guruward is acceptable in life and death.
His life goes not in vain as he recognises the Lord.
The pious dies not nor does death eat him. The pious person is absorbed in the True One.
The Sikh resigned to the Guru's will obtains honour in God's Courts.
The Sikh resigned to the Guru's will effaces self conceit from within himself.
The holy man saves himself, saves his entire lineage and reforms his life too.
Pain never harasses the body of the holy man.
For the holy man, the agony of ego is dispelled.
The mind of holy man is pure and no filth attaches to it ever after-wards. The holy man is absorbed in celestial bliss.
The pious person obtains the magnificence of the Lord's Name.
The pious person sings God's glories and attains to celebrity.
He ever remains happy day and night. The pious person practises the Lord's Name.
The Guru's devoted Sikh night and day remains imbued with the name.
The Guru's devoted Sikh known in the four ages.
The Guru's devoted Sikh ever sings the praises of the immaculate Lord and by the Guru's gospel performs His devotional service.
Without the Guru there is inky darkness.
Seized by the death's myrmidon the men scream aloud.
They are ever ailment stricken worms of ordure. In ordure they suffer pain.
The Guruwards realise that God Himself does and makes others do.
Within the heart of the Guruward the Lord Himself comes to abide.
Nanak, through God's Name greatness is obtained. From the perfect Guru the Name is procured.
Majh, Third Guru.
Amidst the light of the bodies is the light of the One Lord.
By his instruction the perfect Sat Guru shows it.
Between the various bodies the Lord Himself has entailed the differentiation and Himself has made all the structure.
I am devoted and my soul is devoted unto those who sing the praises of the True God.
Without the Guru none obtains the Divine knowledge. Through the Guru man merges into the Lord. Pause.
Thou Thyself lookest beauteous and Thyself enamourest the world.
Thou Thyself, O Merciful Master threadest the world in system.
Thou Thyself O my Lord Creator givest pain and pleasure and into the Guruwards showest Thyself.
The Creator Himself does and causes others to do.
He Himself enshrines the Guru's hymns in man's mind.
From God emanates ambrosial Gurbani which the Exalted Guru narrates and preaches to the world.
God Himself is the maker and Himself the enjoyer.
Ever emancipated is the mortal who shatters his shackles.
Ever exonerated is the True Lord Himself. The ownself to be seen.
The Lord Himself is the mammon and Himself its spiritual affection for it in the whole world.
He Himself has infused affection for it in the whole world.
God Himself is the bestower of virtues and He sings His praises. He Himself utters and preaches His excellences.
Himself the Lord does and Himself causes others to do.
He Himself establishes and Himself disestablishes.
Without Thee O Lord! nothing can be done. Thou Thyself hast engaged the mortals in various tasks.
He Himself causes death and Himself revives.
Uniting with the guild of the saints. He blends mortals with His ownself.
From the Guru's service one gets eternal bliss and through the Guru he is absorbed in the Lord.
He Himself is the Highest of the high.
Scarcely any one, whom He shows Himself beholds Him.
Nanak they within whose mind the Name abides, themselves see the Lord and reveal Him to others.
Majh, Third Guru.
My Master is fully filling all the places.
By the Guru's grace, I have found Him in my own home.
Ever do I serve God and single mindedly meditate on Him. Through the Guru I am absorbed in the True Lord.
I am a sacrifice and my life is a sacrifice unto those who treasure up in their mind the Lord life of the world.
Under the Guru's instruction I am easily absorbed in the giver the fearless God the very life of the universe. Pause.
O mortal, within thy home is the earth, bull and the nether-world.
In thy home is the ever young Beloved.
Ever remains happy the peace-bestower Lord. By the Guru's instruction the mortal merges with the Lord.
Within the body is egotism and egoism,
so the circuit of coming and going ceases not.
He, who becomes resigned to the Guru's will, stills his egotism and meditates on the Truest of the True.
Within the body are the two brothers sin and virtue.
Meeting together both have created the universe.
Who under the Guru's guidance effaces both and enters the home of One God he is automatically absorbed in Him.
In the home is the darkness of love of duality.
When the Divine light dawns, self-conceit and selfishness evaporate,
Master the bestower of peace, becomes manifest when, night and day, man meditates on the Name.
Within man's mind is the light of Him, manifest is whose expanse.
By the Guru's instruction the darkness is dispelled.
The heart lotus blossoms and eternal peace is procured when man's light merges with the Supreme Light.
In the mansion are the treasures brimful with jewels.
Through the Guru man obtains those treasures of the infinite Name.
The pious trader ever purchase the Name goods and always earns profit.
The Lord Himself keeps this merchandise and Himself gives.
Rare is the person who buys this merchandise through the Guru.
Nanak he, on whom, the Lord casts His merciful glance gains the Name. Through His grace the Name is enshrined in the heart.
Majh, Third Guru.
The Lord Himself causes man to meet and serve Him.
By the Guru's instruction the love of another departs.
The pure God is ever the bestower of virtue. The Lord Himself merges man in goodness.
I am a sacrifice and my soul is a sacrifice unto those who treasure up in their minds the Truest of the True.
The True Name is ever immaculate. By the Guru's gospel it is imbibed in the mind. Pause.
The Great Giver is Himself the destiny scribe.
The attendant who serves the Exalted Guru, comes to know God.
With the Name Nectar God's slaves ever look beauteous and through the Guru's teachings they receive God's elixir.
Within this body cave there is a beautiful site.
Through the perfect Guru pride and doubt are dispelled.
They, who are night and day imbued with love praise the Name and by the Guru's grace gain the Lord.
He who searches the body cave, under the Guru's guidance,
finds the pure Name of the enemy of ego abiding within his mind.
He, who sings the Lord's praises and is bedecked with the Gurbani obtains peace by meeting Beloved.
The death's courier, the tax-collector, levies toll on the harbourers of duality.
He inflicts punishment on those, who forget God's Name.
He calls the mortal to account for every instant and moment of time, and counts their actions even of the weight of a grain and a particle.
She, who remembers not her Spouse in this world,
and is cheated with another's love, shall weep bitterly.
She is of mean family very ill-looking and ill-omned. Even in dream she meets not her Husband.
Who enshrines her Beloved in the mind in her parent's home,
the perfect Guru shows her Spouse just before her eyes.
Such bride keeps her Husband clasped to her bosom and through the Name enjoys her Husband on His beauteous couch.
Himself the Lord summons and sends for the man and gives fiats.
His Name He establishes in his mind.
Nanak, he who receives the Name's greatness night and day ever sings God's praises.
Majh, Third Guru.
Exquisite is their birth and sublime is their living place,
who serve the True Guru and remain detached in their own home.
In Divine bliss thy abide they ever remain imbued in the Lord's love and with God's elixir their soul is satiated.
I am a sacrifice and my life is a sacrifice unto those who read understand and enshrine the Master in their minds.
The Guruwards read and eulogise God's name and obtain honour in the True Court. Pause.
The unseen and inscrutable Lord is pervading everywhere.
By no effort can He be obtained.
If God shows mercy then is the True Guru met and he unites man in the union of the Kind One.
He who reads about the love of duality understands not the Lord.
He longs for the three-phased worldly wealth.
The bonds of three-quilted mammon are broken by the Guru's instruction and by the Guru's gospel salvation is effected.
This unsteady mind comes not in grip.
Attached to double mindedness, it wanders in ten directions.
It is a worm of poison in poison it is intertwined and in poison it rots.
He continually practises egotism and shows his own self.
Many rituals he performs but becomes not acceptable.
Without Thee, O Lord nothing happens. Thou pardonest those who are adorned with Thy Name.
Man is born and he dies but understands not God.
Night and day he wanders in another's love.
The life of an apostate passes away in vain and he ultimately departs repenting.
The wife bedecks herself while her husband is gone abroad.
The blind wayward person does such deeds.
He gets not honour in this world nor refuge in the next one. He wastes his life in vain.
Rare are those who knows the Name of God,
and recognise Him through Guru's instruction.
He ever performs the Lord's devotional service day and night and easily obtained peace. Through the perfect Guru's hymns.
Amongst all that unique Lord is contained.
A few pious persons understand this thing.
Nanak the men who are imbued with the Name are graceful, and showing His mercy that Lord blends them with Himself.
Majh, Third Guru.
The mindward reads and is called a Pandit.
Because of another's love he suffers great pain.
Intoxicated with evil passions he understands nothing and falls into existences again and again.
I am a sacrifice and my life is a sacrifice unto those who still their ego and unite with God.
By the Guru's service, God automatically abides in man's mind and he quaffs the Lord's elixir. Pause.
The Pandits read Vedas but obtain not God's Nectar.
Infatuated by mammon they enter into controversies.
The ignorant intellectuals are ever in darkness and the Guruwards know God and sing His praises.
Through the beauteous Name the indescribable Lord in described.
By the Guru's teachings Truth becomes pleasing to the mortal.
Who day and night repeat the Name of the Truest of the true, their souls are imbued with Truth.
They who are tinctured with Truth, like nothing but Truth.
The Lord Himself gives the gift of Truth and regrets not.
By the Guru's gospel the True Lord is ever known. By meeting the True Lord happiness is gained.
The filth of falsehood and fraud attaches not to those,
who by the Guru's grace remain wakeful night and day.
The immaculate Name abides in their hearts and their lights merge with the Light of God.
Men read treatises dealing with three qualities and understand not the Quintessence of God.
They forget the primal Being and recognise not the Guru's hymns.
In the worldly love they are entangled and understand nothing. By the Guru's instruction God is obtained.
The Vedas cry aloud "Mammon is of three qualities".
Deluded by duality an apostate understands not.
People read books related to three dispositions and know not the One Lord. Without understanding Him they suffer pain.
When it pleases Him then the Lord blends the mortal with Himself.
By means of the Guru's instruction God removes his disease of doubt.
Nanak true is magnificence of God's Name. By believing in the Name man obtains Peace.
Majh, Third Guru.
That Lord Himself is unmanifest and manifest.
He who realises the reality, becomes a Pandit.
He who places God's Name within his mind saves himself and saves all his lineage too.
I am a sacrifice and my soul is a sacrifice unto those who taste God's elixir and enjoy its relish.
Who quaffs God's Nectar they are the pure persons. They meditate on the immaculate, Name. Pause.
He alone is above actions who deliberates over the Guru's hymns.
Within his mind is the genuine Divine knowledge and he effaces his self-conceit.
He obtains the nine treasures of the Name's wealth and rising above the three qualities merges into god.
He who takes pride get not free from the bonds of actions.
By the Guru's grace man stills his ego.
He who possesses mental discrimination ever examines his own self and by the Guru's teachings sings God's glories.
That God is the sublime and pure ocean,
from where the Guruward saints becoming swans ever peck the Name pearls.
Day and night they ever take bath there in and wash off their filth of pride.
The pure saint-swans with love and affection,
abide in God's ocean of the guild of the pious.
Day and night they remain imbibed in the love of the True Name and acquire an abode in God the ocean.
The perverse person is ever a dirty crane who is smeared with the filth of egotism.
He takes bath but gets not rid of his pollution.
He, who dies in life and ponders over the Guru's hymns, washes off the pollution of his pride.
I discovered the priceless wealth of God's name in my own home,
when the perfect True Guru preached to me his gospel.
By the Guru's grace the darkness of ignorance is dispelled and with the Divine light in my mind I have recognised my ownself.
Himself the Lord creates and Himself beholds His creation.
That man alone is accounted (accepted) who serves the Sat Guru.
Nanak from the Guru's grace the Lord's Name is obtained and abides within man's mind.
Majh, Third Guru.
The entire universe is engrossed in the love of worldly valuables.
The beings of three dispositions are seen bewitched by mammon.
By the Guru's grace some rare one understands the truth and fixes his attention in the fourth state, of celestial beatitude.
I am a sacrifice my life is a sacrifice unto those who by the Guru's instruction burn their love of wealth.
He, who burns his love of worldliness and fixes his mind on God obtains honour in God's court and mansion. Pause.
The great illusion is the origin of goddesses and gods,
for those were composed ceremonial treatises and schools of philosophy.
Lust and wrath are diffused in the world so in coming and going the mortals suffer pain.
Within this said world a jewel of Divine comprehension is placed.
By the Guru's grace it is enshrined in the mind.
From the perfect Guru are obtained the practice of celibacy, chastity, self-restraint and truth-fullness and the Name's meditation.
In the parent's home the bride is gone astray in doubt.
Attached with another she ultimately regrets.
This world and the world hereafter she losses both, and even in dream she obtains not peace.
The bride who remembers her Husband in this world,
perceives Him just close to her, by the Guru's grace.
She easily remains imbued in the love of her Beloved and makes His world her decoration.
Fruitful is the advent of those who have procured the True Guru,
and burnt the love for worldly goods under the Guru's instruction.
By associating with the society of the saints they sing the praises of One God who is contained in all the hearts.
Why has he who serves not the True Guru come into this world?
Accursed is his life. He has lost his human birth in vain.
The mindward remembers not the Name. Without God's Name he suffers great misery.
He who created the world knows everything about it.
The Lord blends with Himself those who ever keep in view the Guru's instruction.
Nanak, only those persons receive the Name on whose forehead such a writ is recorded by the primal Lord.
Majh, Fourth Guru.
The primal Being, remotest of the remote is all by Himself.
Himself, He establishes and having established, Himself disestablishes.
Amongst all that One Lord is contained. Realising Him as such the Guru-wards obtain honour.
I am a sacrifice, and my life is a sacrifice unto those who ponder on the Name of the formless One.
He has no form of out line and is seen within all the hearts. The inscrutable Lord is known through the Guru. Pause.
Thou art such a merciful and compassionate Lord,
that besides Thee there is not any other.
If the Guru shows mercy he bestows the Name. Through Name's meditation man merges in Lord, the Name incarnate.
Thou Thyself art the True Creator.
Thine treasures are brimful of Divine devotion.
On obtaining God's Name the Guruward's soul is enraptured and he easily enters into profound concentration.
Night and day I sing Thine praises, O my Lord!
Thee I eulogise, O my Beloved!
Without Thee I beg not any other. By the Guru's grace Thou art attained to.
The extent of the inaccessible and incomprehensible Lord cannot be known.
Showing Thy mercy Thou blendest the mortal with Thee.
By the perfect Guru's instruction the Lord is meditated upon. By serving the Lord peace is obtained.
Meritorious is the tongue which chants the Lord's excellences.
By praising the Name one becomes pleasing to the True Lord.
The pious bride ever remains imbued with her Spouse's love, and meeting the True One obtains magnificence.
The egocentric does his affairs is egotism.
He loses his entire life in the game of gamble.
Within him is the supreme darkness of avarice, so he continues coming and going again and again.
Himself the Creator grants glory to those,
for whom He had so pre-ordained Himself.
Nanak, they who receive the Name of the God the destroyer of fear under the Guru's guidance obtain peace.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Within the mind is the unseen Lord but He cannot be seen.
Taking the Name jewel He has kept it concealed within.
The unapproachable and incomprehensible Lord is the highest of all. By the Guru's instruction He is known.
I am devoted and my soul is devoted unto those who in this dark age preach God's Name.
The lovely saints are established by the True Lord. Through the greatest good luck their sight is had. Pause.
Whom the perfect persons and strivers seek,
and the God of creation and the God of rain remember in their hearts,
and whom the thirty-three millions of demigods search, His praises do I sing in my mind, by meeting the Guru.
Through night and day on Thee the air reflects.
The earth is Thy servant, a slave of Thine feet.
In the beings of four sources of creation and their speech, Thou art. The All-pervading Lord I pleasing to the hearts of all.
The True Lord is known through the Guru,
and is recognised by means of the hymns of the perfect Guru.
They who quaff the Lord's elixir, are satiated. With the Truest of the True the mortal is sated.
In his home is the Divine knowledge and he is comfortable.
He makes merry enjoys pleasures and ever revels.
He is the man of wealth and he is the great king who fixes his mind on the Guru's feet.
Firstly Thou reached Sustenance.
Afterwards Thou Created the beings.
So great bestower as Thou art there is not any other, O Lord! None can approach near Thee in eminence.
He, with whom Thou art mightily pleased, meditates on Thee, O Lord.
He acts up to the instruction of the holy men.
He swims across himself and saves his entire lineage. In the Lord's court he meets with no obstruction.
Thou art great, Thou art the highest of the high.
Thou art infinite and the supremely grandest of the grand.
I am a sacrifice unto Thee. Nanak is the slave of Thine slaves.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
Who is emancipated and who is united?
Who is a Divine and who is a preacher?
Who is the house-holder and who the renouncer? Who can appraise the Lord's worth?
How is man bound and how is he delivered?
In what way can he escape from coming and going?
Who is subject to actions and how is above actions? Who utters the Name of the Lord and causes others to utter it?
Who is cheerful and who is afflicted?
Who is the one who turns towards the Guru and who is the one who turns away from the Guru?
By what means God is met? How is man separated from Him? This way who shall explain unto me?
What is the Divine Word by which the mind's wandering ceases?
What is that instruction by which man bears woe and weal alike?
What is that mode of life by which the mortal may meditate on the Supreme Lord? In what way can be sing the praises of God?
The Guruwards is emancipated and the Guruward is united with God.
Sikh resigns to the Guru's will is the knower, and the Sikh resigned to the Guru's will is the knower preacher.
Blessed is the Guru's believer, whether he is the house holder of the renouncer. The believer in the Guru knows the worth of the Lord.
Through pride the man is bound and through the Guru he is freed.
By the Guru's instruction his coming and going cease.
The Guruward does good deeds the Guruward is above actions and whatever the Guruward does, he does that in good faith.
The believer in the Guru is happy and the mindward unhappy.
The Guruward turns towards the Guru and the mindward turns away from the Guru.
The Guruward is united with the Lord and the apostate is separated from Him. Through the Guru the way is revealed.
The Guru's instruction is the Divine word by which the wandering mind is controlled.
By the instruction of the Exalted Guru pain and pleasure are borne alike.
The Guru's teachings is the way by which the Supreme Lord is meditated upon. The pious person sings the praises of God.
The entire make the Lord Himself has made.
Everything He does causes to be done and establishes Himself.
From One the Lord has become numberless and the numberless, O Nanak! at last merge in the One Lord.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
When the Lord is imperishable, what uneasiness can there be then?
God is prosperous, so His slave is greatly at ease.
Thou, O my Master! art the bestower of soul, life, honour and happiness. What Thou does from that I derive comfort.
I am a sacrifice, and my life is a sacrifice unto the holy men to whose soul and body. Thou art pleasing.
Thou art my mountain thou art my shelter. With Thee, O Lord! none can rival. Pause.
The person, unto whom Thine doings taste sweet,
see the Supreme Lord amongst all the hearts.
Within spaces and interspaces, Thou art, Thou art. Thou alone O unique Lord! art pervading everywhere.
Thou art the Fulfiller of all the heart's desires.
With devotion and affection are brimful Thine treasures.
They whom Thou mercifully protectest through perfect good fortune merge in Thee O Lord!
From the blind well thou hast dragged me out on the dry shore.
By showing Thy mercy Thou hast seen Thy servants with Thine gracious glance.
The servant sings the praise of the perfect and immortal Lord. By saying and hearing His praises exhaust not.
Here and hereafter Thou art the Protector.
In mother's womb Thou cherisheth the child.
The fire of mammon affects not those who are imbibed in the Lord's love and sing His praises.
What excellences of Thine can I relate and remember?
Within my soul and body I behold thee with mine eyes.
Thou art my friend my intimate and my Lord. Without thee I know not any other.
He whose helper Thou hast become, O Lord!
is not affected by even the hot wind.
Thou art the Lord our refuge and the giver of peace. By remembering Thee in the saints society Thou becomest manifest.
Thou art lofty unfathomable infinite and invaluable.
Thou art the True Lord. I am Thy servant and slave.
Thou art the King and True is Thine sovereignty. Nanak is devoted and a sacrifice unto Thee.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
For ever and aye do thou remember the luminous Lord.
Never forget Him in thy mind. Pause.
Attain to the society of the saints,
by which thou shalt not go down the way of death.
Have the viaticum of God's Name. Thus no blemish shall attach to thy lineage.
They, who meditate on the Master, are not thrown into the hell.
They, who meditate on the Master, are not thrown into the hell.
Even the hot wind touches them not within whose mind the Lord has come and acquired an abode.
Beauteous and good looking are they,
who dwell in the society of the saints.
Who have amassed the wealth of God's Name, they are sagacious and extremely exquisite.
Drink thou the Name Nectar, the home of happiness,
and live thou by viewing the face of the Lord's slave.
Have all the affairs of Thine set aright by ever worshipping the feet of the Guru.
Whom God has made His Own,
he alone reflects on the World-Lord.
He is the warrior and he the chosen one on whose forehead good fortune is recorded.
Within my mind I have meditated on the Master.
For me this is like enjoying the revelments of sovereignty.
Evil never originates in me. I am saved by being dedicated to the righteous action.
The Creator I have enshrined in my mind,
and I have obtained the fruit of life.
O bride if God the Spouse, becomes pleasing to thy mind then shall thy married life become ever stable.
I have obtained the eternal wealth of the Name,
by seeking the shelter of the dispeller of fear.
Attaching to His skirt, the Lord has saved Nanak and he has won for himself the peerless life.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Majh, Fifth Guru.
By pondering and reflecting over God the mind becomes steady. Pause.
By remembering and thinking of the bright Guru dread is effaced and dispelled.
If the mortal seeks the refuge of the supreme Lord then why shall he repent again?
By adoring the feet of the saints and the pious persons all the desires are fulfilled.
In all the hearts the unique Lord is contained. He is fully filling water, dry lands the earth and the sky.
Sanctified by the dust of the feet of the saints, I have served Lord, the destroyer of sins.
The Master Himself has entirely delivered me and I am pacified by meditating on God.
The Creator had done justice and the evil-doers have died becoming mute and dumb.
Nanak is imbued with the True Name and he ever beholds God just before his eyes.
Twelve months Majh, Fifth Guru.
There is but One God. By the favour of the True Guru He is obtained.
O Omnipresent Lord! show mercy and unite us with Thee who, on account of the deeds done, are separated from Thee.
Weary of wandering in the four corners and ten directions we have come to Thine sanctuary, O Lord!
A cow without milk serves no purpose.
Without water the crop withers and fetches not the price.
If we meet not God the Spouse our friend, how can we find rest?
Those houses, villages and towns where-in God the Husband becomes not manifest are like a furnace.
All decorations, betel and dainties along with the body are all in vain.
Without the Lord Master the Bride groom all the friends and intimates are like the death's myrmidon.
Nanak's supplication is "show thine benediction and grant Thy Name".
O God! the Lord master eternal is whose mansion, unite me with Thee.
By remembering the Master of the universe in the month of Chetar great rejoicing emanates.
By meeting the pious persons, and uttering the Name with the tongue the Lord is obtained.
In this world the advent of only those is of account who have obtained their Lord.
Vain is deemed to be the life of him who live without Him even for a moment.
The Lord is fully filling water dry lands the earth and firmament and is contained in the forests too.
How much pain shall I reckon to befall a person who remembers not that Lord?
Very great is the fortune of those who repeat the Name of that Lord.
For God's sight, O Nanak! my soul craves and my mind is thirsty.
I touch the feet of him who may unite me with that Master, in the month of Chetar.
In the month of Waisakh how can the separated, who suffer separation from their Beloved have patience?
They forget Lord God the Friend, and are attached with the deceitful wealth.
The son the wife and the riches go not with the mortal but that imperishable God does.
Being entangled and enmeshed in the love of false occupations the whole world had perished.
Without the Name of One God, One had his future marred.
By forgetting God the mortal is ruined. Without the Lord there is no other.
Pure is the fame of those who are attached to the feet of the Beloved.
Nanak makes supplication before the Lord "Come and unite me with Thee, O Lord! "
Only then does the month of Waisakh become beautiful when the saint causes man to meet that God.
In the month of Jeth, man ought to unite with Him before whom all bow.
None can keep him in bondage, who is attached to the skirt of God the Friend.
The Lord's Name is like gems and pearls. Them none can burgle and steal.
In the Primal Being are all the delights which fascinate the mind.
What God desires, He does that. That very thing the creatures do.
They whom the Lord has made His own are said to be praise worthy.
By their own obtainment, If men could meet the Lord, why should they then weep in separation?
Meeting God through the society of the saints, O Nanak! the pious persons enjoy celestial bliss.
In Jeth, the playful Lord Master meets Him, on whose forehead good fortune is recorded.
The month of Har, seems hot for them to whom God Spouse is not near.
They forsake God the life of the world and rely upon man's hope.
Through another's love the man is ruined and round his neck wears the death's halter.
Whatever is recorded on man's brow and what he shows that does he reap.
When the night of human life passes away the man repents and departs without hope.
They, who meet the saints, are exonerated in God's Court.
Show Thy mercy unto me, O Lord! that I may thirst for a sight of Thee.
Nanak makes a supplications, "Beside Thee, O Lord! there is not any other".
Har is pleasant for him, in whose heart abide God's feet.
In the month of Sawan, happy is the bride who enshrines love for the Lord's lotus feet.
Her mind and body are imbued with the love of the True One and God's Name is her only support.
The sinful pleasures are false. All that is apparent, turns to ashes.
Beauteous are the drops of God's Nectar. By meeting the Saint-Guru one quaffs them.
The forests and grass blades are refreshed with the love of the omnipotent, all-pervading and infinite Lord.
To meet God, my mind yearns through His grace He is met.
The fellow-maids who have obtained the Lord; unto them I am ever a sacrifice.
Nanak, when venerable God shows mercy He bedecks the mortal with His Name.
Sawan is delightful for those happy wives whose mind is bedecked with the necklace of the Name of the pervading God.
In Bhadon she, who cherishes love for another is lost in doubt.
Though she may make lakhs of decorations but they are not of any avail.
The day the body perishes at that time people call him a ghost.
The couriers of death seize and dispatch the soul and acquaint none with the secret.
They, with whom man is in love leave him in an instant and stand aside.
He wrings his hands (tantalises) his body reels in pain and changes from black to white.
As the man sows so does he reap. Such is the field of actions.
Nanak has sought the Lord's protection. The Master has given him the boat of His feet to cross the world-ocean.
They, who enshrine affection for the Guru, the saviour, are not consigned to hell in the month of Bhadon.
In Assu the Lord's love is over-flowing from within me. How shall I go and meet God?
Within my mind and body is the great thirst for the Lord's sight. Let some one come and cause me to meet Him, O mother!
The saints are my helpers in my love march. I fall at their feet.
Without the Lord how can peace be obtained? There is no place besides.
They, who have tasted the ambrosia of love, remain sated and satiated.
Stilling their self-conceit, they make the supplication, O Lord, attach us to Thine skirt".
They, whom God the Spouse, has united with Himself, neither separate nor go anywhere else.
Without the Lord there is no other second. Nanak has entered God's sanctuary.
In Assu they, on whom is the grace of God the King dwell in peace.
In Katak do thou Good deeds. It is not advisable to impute blame to any other.
By forgetting the supreme Lord, all the ailments cling to the man.
The non-believers in the Omnipresent Lord suffer separation from Him, birth after birth.
In an instant all the pleasures of wealth become bitter.
For them none can play the role of an intermediary. Before whom shall they daily bewail?
Nothing can be done by man's doing. In the very beginning the destiny was recorded.
Through the greatest good luck my Lord is met. Then do all the pangs of separation depart.
Do Thou protect Nanak, O my Lord Master, the fetter cutter.
In Katik by obtaining the society of the saints all the anxieties of the mortal depart.
In Maghar beautiful are they who sit with their Beloved God.
How can their glory be measured whom the Lord blends with Himself?
The body and mind of those who have the companionship of saints bloom with the Pervading God.
They, who are without the society of the pious persons, dwell all alone.
Their pain never departs and they fall under the clutches of the death's minister.
They, who have enjoyed their Lord, are ever seen standing in His service.
Their neck is set with the jewels, emeralds and rubies of God's Name.
Nanak desires the dust of the feet of those who fall for shelter at the Lord's door.
They, who meditate on the Master in the month of Maghar are not born again.
In Poh cold affects not those whom God the Husband, hugs to His bosom.
They, whose soul is pierced through with His lotus feet, remain attached to the Sovereign's sight.
Seek the protection of the King God, who is the Master of the world and the cherisher of the universe. The Lord's service is profitable.
On meeting the saints sing the praises of the Lord and sin shall not be able to touch thee.
Being absorbed in the True Love the soul gets blended with what it has sprung from.
She, whom the Supreme Lord has grasped by hand separates not again.
A hundred thousand times I am a sacrifice unto God the unapproachable and unfathomable friend.
Nanak has fallen at the Primal Being's door, and He had to preserve the honour of one lying at His door.
Poh is beauteous and the giver of all peace to him whom the Care-free Lord grants pardon.
In Magh deem the bath in the dust of the saints' congregation as an ablution at shrines.
Remember and hear God's Name and bestow it as alms unto all.
So shall thy filth of evil actions of many births be removed and pride vanish from thy heart.
Lust and wrath shall not seduce thee and the dog of greed shall be destroyed.
The world praises those who walk along the true way.
To take pity on the sentient beings is more acceptable than bathing at sixty-eight places of pilgrimage and giving all alms.
He, on whom God mercifully bestows this virtue is a wise man.
Nanak is a sacrifice unto those who have met their Lord.
In Magh they to whom the perfect Guru is merciful are called the pure.
In Phagan they alone obtain happiness unto whom God the Friend has become manifest.
The saints who render man assistance with the Pervading Lord, have mercifully united me with Him.
My couch is beautiful, I possess all the comforts and now there is no room for aches.
My desire has been fulfilled and I am exceedingly lucky in having God the monarch, as my Spouse.
Meeting together my fellow maids sing songs of rejoicing and utter the sermons of the world-Lord.
Like God I perceive no other. No one else is equal to Him.
He has embellished my this world and the next one, and had given me a permanent place.
He has rescued me from the world-ocean and I shall not again have to run through births.
I have but one tongue and manifold are Thine excellences. Nanak is saved by falling at thine feet.
In Phagan ever praise Him who has not ever an iota of avarice.
The affairs of those who have meditated on the Name have been adjusted.
They, who contemplate over God-incarnate perfect Guru, are judged as true and genuine in His court.
God's feet are the treasure of all the comforts. Through them man crosses the dreadful and arduous world-ocean.
They obtain love and devotion and burn not in mortal sins.
The falsehood had vanished love for duality has run away, and they are perfectly brimful with truth.
They serve the Supreme Lord Master and place the unique One in their heart.
The months days and moments are auspicious for those on whom the Lord casts His merciful glance.
Nanak asks for the boon of Thine sight, O God! Shower Thine benediction on Him.
Majh Fifth Guru. Day and Night.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's favour He is obtained.
I serve my True Guru and on God do I meditate the entire day and night.
Forsaking my self-conceit, I seek the Lord's refuge, and with my mouth I utter sweet words.
Since many births I am separated from thee, O God! my friend and relation. Now, mercifully unite me with Thee.
The mortals who are separated from God they abide not in peace, O my sister!
Without God, the Spouse, solace is not obtained. I have searched and seen all the spheres.
My own evil actions have kept me away from the Lord. Why should I accuse others?
Show mercy, O Lord! and save me. There is no other bestower of mercy.
Without Thee, O God! it is to role in dust. To whom shall I narrate my wail of distress?
Nanak makes a supplication with mine eyes "may I see God, the Angelic Person"
He, who is the omnipotent and infinite Lord God, listens to the inner anguish.
In death and life meditate on Him who is the mainstay of all.
In the world to come and in this world the bride belongs to the Spouse, who has a big family.
The Lord is lofty and inaccessible. His knowledge is unfathomable and there is no limit to His this and that end.
That service pleases Him which is rendered by becoming the dust of the feet of the saints.
The merciful luminous Lord is the Master of the poor and the saviour of sinners.
Since the very outset and beginning of ages the True Name of the Creator has been saving the mortals.
No one knows Master's worth nor is there any weigher of it.
Nanak, he who is beyond reckoning, is dwelling within the mind and body.
I am ever a sacrifice unto those who wait upon their Lord day and night.
The saints remember Him forever who is the pardoner of all,
and who has created the soul and body and has mercifully granted us the very life.
By the Guru's instruction meditate in the Lord and repeat the pure Name.
The worth of the Infinite Exalted Lord, cannot be described.
He in whose heart the Pervading God abides is said to be very fortunate.
By meeting Lord, the Spouse the mind's desires are fulfilled.
Nanak lives by remembering God and all his sins are effaced.
Day and night who forgets not God that being becomes ever green.
The Lord is brimful with all the might. Of me dishonoured He is the resting place.
Within my mind I have grasped God's support and I live by repeating and remembering the Name.
Shower Thine benediction, O Lord that I may blend with the dust of Thine slave's feet.
As thou keepest me so do I live. I wear and eat what thou givest me.
Grant me the enterprise, O Lord that I may sing Thine praises by meeting the saints.
I can think of no other place. Where should I go to lodge a complaint.
The lofty, unapproachable and immeasurable Lord is the destroyer of ignorance and the dispeller of darkness.
Unite with Thee, O God! the separated soul. This alone is the object of Nanak.
It shall be all-joy that day. O God! when I shall take to the Guru's feet.
Eulogy in Majh Measure and slok by First Guru. To be sung in the tune of Malik Murid and Chandarhara Sohia.
There is but One God. True is His Name and creative His personality. By the Guru's favour He is obtained.
Slok, First Guru.
The Guru is the giver, the Guru is the house of ice and the Guru is the lamp (light) of the three worlds.
The Guru possesses the eternal wealth, O Nanak and by putting heart's faith in him peace is obtained.
First Guru.
At first man cherishes affection for breast's milk.
Secondly he acquires understanding of his mother and father.
Thirdly he comes to recognise his brother, brother's wife and his sister.
In the fourth stage the love of plays arises in him.
Fifthly he runs after food and drink.
In the sixth he inquires not woman's caste in his lust.
Seventhly he amasses wealth and acquires an abode in his home.
In the eighth stage his body is wasted in wrath.
In the ninth he grows grey and his breathing becomes difficult.
In the tenth stage he is burnt and becomes ashes.
His comrades accompany him to the pyre and give vent to loud lamentations.
The swan (soul!) flies away and inquires about the road to take.
He came and departed and even his Name is dead.
After him food is offered on leaves and the crows are called.
Nanak, the wayward love the spiritual darkness.
Without the Guru the world is drowned.
First Guru.
At ten one is a child at twenty a youth and at thirty he is called handsome.
At forty he is full at fifty his foot falls back and at sixty old age comes on.
At seventy he loses his intellect and at eighty he cannot perform his duties.
At ninety his seat is on the cot, and being weak he absolutely understand not what strength is
Searching and seeking I have seen, O Nanak! that the world is a mansion of smoke.
Pauri.
Thou, O omnipotent and unapproachable Creator! Thyself hast created the universe.
In good many ways Thou hast fashioned the creation of various colours, wonderful dyes and kinds.
Thou, who hast made it, understandest it. It is all a play of Thine.
Some are born, others get up and depart. Without the Name all die away.
The Guruwards have poppy flower like dye. They are imbued with the colour of God's love.
Serve that True and Pure God who is All-powerful and the Destiny -scribe.
Thou Thyself art wise O Lord! Of the great Thine is the greatest personality.
I am a sacrifice and devoted unto those who O My True Lord! remember Thee within their hearts and minds.
Slok, First Guru.
Having created the body the Creator infused Life therein and made arrangements to protect it.
Man sees with his eyes speaks with his tongue and fixes his attention by gearing with his ears.
He walks with feet, works with hands and wears and eats what is given to him.
He knows not Him who made the make. The blind man does dark deeds.
When the pitcher breaks it crumbles into pot-pieces then and its mould cannot be remoulded.
Nanak, without the Guru there is no honour and without this honour one cannot ferry across.
Second Guru.
The gift is preferable to the Giver. Understand the perverse person to be such.
What should be said and told regarding his intelligence, understanding and cleverness?
The deeds which the mortal commits sitting inside they are known in four directions.
He, who practises virtue goes by the Name of virtuous and he who commits sins is known a sinner.
Thou Thyself performest the entire play, O Creator! Why to speak and talk of another?
O Lord! as long as Thy light is in the body so long Thou speakest in the illumined body. If some one shows that he has accomplished something without Thy light I would call him wise.
Nanak, God who alone is accomplished and omniscient is made manifest by the Guru's instruction.
Pauri.
Thou Thyself created the world and Thou Thyself put it to work.
Giving to eat the intoxicating herb of worldly love, Thou Thyself hast led astray the world.
Within the mortal is the fire of desire. He gets not satiated and remains hungry and thirsty.
Illusion is this world. It perishes, is reborn, comes and goes.
Without the True Guru secular attachment sunders not. All have grown weary of performing rituals.
When it pleases Thee, O Lord! the mortal is sated with joy by remembering the Name under the Guru's instruction.
He saves his lineage. Blest is the mother who gave birth to him.
Beauteous is the magnificence and understanding of him who fixes his mind with God.
Slok, Second Guru.
To see without eyes to hear without ears,
to walk without feet, to work without hands,
and to speak without tongue; like this one remain dead whilst alive.
O Nanak! then does the mortal meet his Spouse by recognising His will.
Second Guru.
The Lord is seen heard of and known but His relish is not obtained.
How can a lame, armless and blind person run to embrace the Lord?
Make fear of God thine feet, His love thine hands and His understanding thine eyes.
Sayeth Nanak in this way, O wise woman! the union with the Bridegroom is accomplished.
pauri.
For ever and aye Thou, O Lord! art but One. Secondly Thou hast set afoot the world play.
Thou hast created self-conceit and arrogance and infused avarice into the mortals.
Do Thou keep me in the way as it pleases Thee. Everyone does as Thou directest him.
Some Thou attachest to the Guru's instruction, grantest pardon and unitest with Thyself.
Some stands at Thy door and perform Thine service. Except the Name nothing else is pleasing to them.
Some Thou hast put to Thine true service. Any other service is worthless for them.
Some, who are pleasing to Thee, remain detached in the midst of their sons, wife and other relations.
From within and without they are pure and remain absorbed in the true Name.
Slok, First Guru.
I may make a cavern in the mountain of gold or in the water of the nether-world.
I may remain standing on my head, upside down either in the earth or on the sky.
I may fully cover my body by wearing clothes and to wash them may be my everyday work.
I may shout aloud the white the red, the yellow and the black Vedas.
I may live dirty and filthy. But all this is an evil intellect and a pernicious mentality.
Nanak, I ponder over only the Name of God, without which neither I was nor I am and nor I shall be worth anything.
First Guru.
Man washes his cloth and washes his body and thinks that he is automatically rendered pure.
Knowing not of filth attaching to his inner-self he rubs and cleanses himself externally.
The blind man goes astray and falls into the death's noose.
He deems other's commodity as his own and in pride suffers pain.
Nanak, when under the Guru's guidance pride is dispelled, man then reflects over the Lord God's Name.
He repeats the name meditates on the Name, and through the Name is absorbed in peace.
Pauri.
Destiny has brought about the union of body and soul.
He who created them has arranged their separation.
The fool enjoys revelments and undergoes all the agonies.
From worldly pleasures and committing sins arise diseases.
From sinful enjoyment proceed sorrow, separation from the Lord, birth and death.
Entering into the accounts of misdeeds the fool is involved in an imbroglio.
The judgement is in the hands of the True Guru, who puts an end to the dispute.
What the Creator does that comes to pass. By man's effacing effort it cannot be effaced.
Slok, First Guru.
By uttering falsehood, man eats carrion,
yet, he, goes to admonish others.
Who himself is beguiled and beguiles his comrades,
he appears to be the leader, O Nanak!
Fourth Guru.
He, within whom is the truth obtains the True Name and with his mouth utters the truth.
He himself walks in God's way and puts others on God's path.
If there be a pure water tank in front then the filth is washed off. By bathing in a pond, still more filth attaches to the man.
The perfect place of pilgrimage is the True Guru who night and day meditates on the Name of Lord God.
He is saved himself along with his family and by giving the Name of the Lord Master saves the whole world.
Servant Nanak is a sacrifice unto him, who himself repeats God's Name and causes others to utter the Name.
Pauri.
Some pick and eat fruits and roots and dwell in forest localities.
Some roam about wearing ochre robs as Yogis and solitarians.
Within them is the great desire and they long for clothes and food.
In vain they waste their lives. They are neither householders nor renouncers.
Birth and death cease not hovering over their heads and they are the victim of the three-phased desire.
When by the Guru's instruction, man becomes the slave of Lord's slaves, death draws not near him.
The True Name abides in his true mind, and in his very home he remains detached.
Who serve their True Guru, O Nanak, they rise from desire to desirelessness.
Slok, First Guru.
If clothes be stained with blood the garment gets polluted.
Who suck the blood of human beings; how can their mind be pure?
Nanak, utter thou the Name of God from your mouth with sincere heart.
Else are worldly ostentatious, Man pracitises false deeds.
First Guru.
When I am nobody, what can I say? Since I am nothing, what can I be?
As God made me so I act. As He told me so I speak. With sins I am brimful and greatly soiled. Them I wash off now.
Myself I understand not, yet I teach other people. Such a guide I am.
Nanak, though thus being himself blind shows the way and misleads all his comrades.
Going into the next world, he shall be shoe-beaten on the very face and it shall be seen, what sort of leader he was.
Pauri.
Throughout all the months, seasons, 'gharies' and 'murats' I meditate on Thee, O Lord!
By calculation, none has obtained Thee, O True unseen and infinite Lord!
The scholar, who harbours greed avarice and pride is said to be a fool.
Read thou the Name and realise the Name O man! and ponder over the Guru's instruction.
By the Guru's gospel, I have earned the wealth of God's Name, and possess the store houses brimful with the Lord's devotion.
By believing in the immaculate Name the mortal is acclaimed as true at the True Court.
The light of the infinite Lord, who is the owner of mortal's soul and very life is within him.
The True Banker, thou alone art, O Lord! The rest of the world is Thy petty dealer.
Slok, First Guru.
Make mercy thy mosque, faith thy prayer-mat what is just and lawful, thy Quran,
modesty thy circumcision and civility thy fast; so shalt thou be a Moslem.
Make right conduit thy Mecca, truth thy spiritual guide and pious deeds thy creed and prayer.
Rosary is that, what is pleasing to Him. Thus the Lord shall preserve thy honour, O Nanak.
First Guru!
Nanak, another's right is swine for him (the Musalman) and cow for him (the Hindu).
The spiritual guide and the prophet shall stand surety only then, if man eats not carrion.
By mere talk man goes not to heaven. The deliverance is by the practice of truth alone.
By putting condiments in the unlawful food, it becomes not lawful.
Nanak, from false talk only falsehood is obtained.
First Guru.
There are five prayers, five times for prayers, and the five have five names.
The first is truthfulness, second the honest earning and third charity in God's Name.
The fourth is pure intent and mind and the fifth the Lord's admiration and praise.
Repeat thou the creed of good deeds and then call thyself a Moslem.
Nanak all the liars shall obtain what is altogether false.
Pauri.
Some trade in the invaluable commodity and others are the dealers in glass.
If the True Guru be mightily pleased man finds the treasure of jewels within him.
Without the Guru, none has found the Treasure. The false and the blind have perished in ceaseless wanderings.
The wayward putrefy and dies in duality and understand not Divine comprehension.
Without one Lord there is no other. Before whom should thy lodge a complaint?
Some are without wealth and ceaselessly roam about and some have treasures full of wealth.
Without God's Name, there is no other wealth. All else is but poison and ashes.
Nanak, the Lord himself does and Himself makes others do. By His order He reforms the mortals.
Slok, First Guru.
To be called a Muslim is difficult. If one be really so then he may get himself called a Muslim.
First he ought to deem sweet the religion of the Lord's devotees and have his pride of pelf effaced as rasped with a scraper.
Becoming the true disciple of the faith of the Prophet, let him put aside the illusion of death and life.
He should heartily submit to the Lord's will, worship the Creator and efface his self-conceit.
Therefore if he is merciful to all the sentient beings, O Nanak! then, alone he shall be called a Musalman.
Fourth Guru.
Renounce sexual pleasures, wrath, falsehood and calumny, forsake worldly valuables and dispel pride.
Put aside the lust for belles and leave worldly love. Then shalt thou obtain the bright Lord amidst the dark world.
Eschew self-adoration, egotism and affection for thy sons and wife. Shed thirst and desire of wealth and embrace love for the omnipresent Lord.
Nanak, he, in whose mind the True One abides, through the True Gurbani gets absorbed in God's Name.
Pauri.
Of the kings, subjects and chiefs none shall remain.
The shops cities and streets shall disintegrate by the order of God.
The solidly built and beautiful mansions the fool deems his own.
The treasures filled with wealth become empty in an instant.
Stallions, chariots, camels, elephants with decorations,
the gardens, properties, houses and buildings, O where are they which man considers his own,
including tents, cotton-tape webbed couches and satin pavillions?
Nanak, true is the Lord, the Bestower, who is recognised by His Omnipotence.
Slok, First Guru.
Were the streams to become milk-cattle and springs to become milk and clarified butter.
Were the entire earth to become sugar, so that the mind might ever rejoice,
and were the mountains to become gold and silver and be studded with jewels and gems.
Even then, I would admire Thee, O Lord! and my yearning to utter Thine praises shall not abate.
First Guru.
Were the eighteen loads of vegetation to become fruit and the ever-growing grass to become delicious rice.
Were I to arrest both the moon and the sun in their courses and were my seat to become ever stable.
Even then I would admire Thee, O Lord! and my yearning to utter Thine praises shall not abate.
First Guru.
Were I to infest my body with pain by means of two sinful stars, Rahu and Ketu;
Were the blood sucking kings to sway over my head and like this hold may appear to be my condition;
Even then I would admire Thee, O Lord! and my yearning to utter Thine praises shall not abate.
First Guru.
If fire and frost be my raiment wind be my food;
and If the fascinating fairies of heaven be my wives, O Nanak! all this shall pass away.
Even then I would magnify Thee, O Master! and my buoyant desire to repeat Thine eulogies ceases not.
Pauri.
The evil-doer is a demon, who knows not the Master.
He is said to be a mad-cap, who understands not his ownself.
Pernicious is strife in this world, In contention man is distracted.
Without God's Name, worthless is the mortal. In scepticism he is destroyed.
He, who deems both the ways lead to one Lord, shall be emancipated.
Fallen in the blasphemer's hell, the utterer of lies shall burn to ashes.
In the whole world the most sanctified are they who remain absorbed in truth.
By eradicating his self-conceit, man is exonerated in Lord's Court.
Slok, First Guru.
He alone lives within whose mind that Master abides.
O Nanak! none else is really alive.
O Nanak! none else is really alive.
All, that he eats is forbidden.
Intoxicated with power of authority and revelments of riches,
imbued with such pleasures the mortal dances shamelessly.
Nanak, he is beguiled and defrauded.
Without the Lord's Name, he loses his honour and departs.
First Guru.
What can be achieved by eating and what by dressing so long as that True Lord abides not in the man's mind?
What can be achieved by eating and what by dressing so long as that True Lord abides not in the man's mind?
What is fruit, what clarified butter and sweet molasses, what fine flour and what meat?
What is raiment and what comfortable couch, to enjoy sexual intercourse and revelements?
Of what use is an army and of what the mace-bearers, servants and coming and dwelling in mansions?
Nanak, without the True Name, the entire paraphernalia is perishable.
Pauri.
What is in the power of caste? Righteousness is to be assayed.
High caste pride is like poison by holding in hand and eating which the man dies.
The sovereignty of the True Lord is known throughout all the ages.
He who obeys the Lord's order becomes a noble in His Court.
Enjoining the performance of His service the Lord has sent the mortal in this world.
The Guru-drummer has by means of Gurbani, proclaimed this meditation of the Lord.
Hearing this some have mounted their horses and some are caparisoning to them.
Some have tied their bundles and some have even ridden off.
Slok, First Guru.
When the crop is ripe, it is cut then. Only the straw and hedge remain.
Along with the bristled ears the crop is thrashed and by winnowing the corn is separated from the crop.
Joining together both the quern-stones people come and sit down to grind the corn.
They, which remain attached to the central axle, are saved Nanak has seen a wonderful thing.
First Guru.
See, that the sugarcane is sheared. After cleansing and chopping off its plumes its feet are bound to form it into bundles.
Placing it in between the wooden rollers of the press, they crush and award it punishment.
Extracting the juice, they put it in the cauldron and it groans as it burns.
Even the empty crushed cane is collected and is burnt in the fire.
Nanak, how the sweet-leaved sugarcane is treated, come and see, O people!
Pauri.
Some think not of death and entertain many hopes.
They ever die, perish and are reborn and are of no avail.
In their heart of heart they call themselves good.
The king of the angels of death for ever and aye stalks the apostate.
The perverse person is untrue to his salt and feels not indebted for the good done to him.
They, who pay homage under compulsion are not pleasing to the Lord.
They who obtain the exalted True Name are liked by the master.
They who obtain good destiny bow before the Lord's throne.
First Guru. Slok.
What can the deep water do to a fish and what the sky to the bird?
What can cold do to a stone and what the married life to an eunuch?
Sandal may be applied to a dog even then he will preserve his canine nature.
Though one may instruct a deaf man and read for him Simirtis and other religious recitations,
Though one may place a light before a blind man and burn fifty lamps for him but all is in vain.
Though one may put gold before a herd of cattle but they will pick out and select grass to eat.
If flux be put into iron, it will melt but will not become cotton.
Nanak the nature of a fool is this that he always talks of the mortal sins.
First Guru.
When bronze, gold and iron break,
the smith effects welding with fire.
When the husband separates away from wife,
through the son reconciliation is effected in this world.
When the king makes a demand by meeting it the bond is established.
The hungry man attains appeasement, when he eats something.
Relief from famine is attained if it rains and the stream be overflowing.
There is an affinity between love and sweet words.
If any one speak the Truth, he establishes a link with the holy scriptures.
By goodness and truth the dead establish a bond with the living.
Such are the alliances which prevail in this world.
The fool is mended only on being struck in the face.
Nanak says this after due deliberation.
Through the Lord's praise the tie with His court is established.
Pauri.
Himself creating the universe God Himself gives it thought.
Some are false and some true. The Lord Himself is the Assayer.
The genuine are consigned to His Treasury, while the counterfeit are thrown outside.
The false are cast aside from the True Court. Before whom can they prefer a complaint?
They should run to the True Guru's sanctuary. This is the rightful way of life.
The True Guru turns the impure into pure. He is the embellisher of man with God's Name.
By enshrining affection and love for the Guru the mortals are honoured in the True Court.
Who can reckon the worth of those who have been pardoned by the Creator Himself?
Slok, first Guru.
All the spiritual guides their disciples and monarchs of the world are beneath the earth.
The kings shall pass away. God alone is ever flourishing.
Thou alone art, Thou alone art, O Lord!
First Guru.
Neither gods, nor demons or men,
nor men of miracles or seekers shall stay on earth.
The Lord alone is. Who else can there be?
Thou alone art, O Lord! Thou alone art.
First Guru.
Neither the just, nor the generous nor other men,
nor the seven worlds beneath the earth, shall remain.
The Lord alone is. Who else can there be?
Thou alone art, O Lord! Thou alone art.
First Guru.
Neither the solar and lunar regions,
nor seven continents, nor the ocean,
nor the corn or the wind; nothing is stable.
Thou alone art, O Lord! Thou alone art.
First Guru.
The sustenance is not in the hands of any one.
Hopes of all abide in the one Lord.
The Lord alone is who else can there be?
Thou alone art, O Lord! Thou alone art.
First Guru.
The birds have no money in their pockets.
They rest their hope on water and trees.
He, alone is the Giver.
Thou alone art, O Lord! Thou alone art.
First Guru.
Nanak, what is written on the forehead,
no one can erase that.
That Lord instills power in the mortal and then resumes it.
Thou alone art, O Lord! Thou alone art.
Pauri.
True is Thine command, O Lord! Through the Guru, it is known.
Eradicating self by the Guru's instruction, I have recognised the Truth.
True is Thine Court which becomes manifest through the Guru's gospel.
By meditating on the True Name I have been absorbed in the True One.
Thy self-willed are ever false. They are deluded by doubt.
In ordure is their abode. They know not the Name's relish.
Without God's Name, they suffer agony in coming and going.
Nanak the Lord Himself is the Assayer, who distinguishes the counterfeit and the genuine.
Slok, First Guru.
The tigers, hawks, kites and falcons them the Lord causes to eat grass.
Who eat grass, them He causes to eat meat. This way of life He can set going.
He exhibits mounds in rivers and the deserts He makes into unfathomable oceans.
A worm, He appoints to kingship and He reduces an army to ashes.
All the sentient beings live by breathing. What can breath do then, if He wishes to sustain life?
Nanak, as it pleases the True Lord, so does He give sustenance.
First Guru.
Some are meat eaters and some eat grass.
Some obtain delicacies of thirty six sorts.
Some abide in the earth and eat the mud.
Some are breath-controller and count their breaths.
Some are the adorers of the Formless Lord and have the Name's support.
The Donor ever lives. None dies of privation.
Nanak they who keep not that Lord in their mind are beguiled.
Pauri.
By good fortune does man perform the service of the perfect Guru.
Effacing his self under the Guru's instruction the mortal meditates on God's Name.
By taking to another task man wastes his life.
Without the Name all which man wears and eats is poison.
By praising the True Name one merges in the True Master.
Without serving the True Guru, one attains not an abode in peace and is born over and over again.
With the false capital the mortal earns falsehood in the world.
Nanak by singing the praises of the Pure True Lord man departs with honour.
Slok, First Guru.
When it pleases Thee then man plays upon musical instruments and sings. When it is Thine will he bathes in water.
When it pleases Thee, O Lord! then the mortal smears his body with ashes and sounds the horn and the shell.
When it pleases Thee one reads then the Muslim texts, and is acclaimed a Mullah and a Sheikh.
When it is Thy will Then they become kings and enjoy good many sweet and saltish savours.
When it is Thy will men wield the sword and sever the head from the neck.
When it is Thine will, O master! people go in foreign lands and hearing various news, return home.
When it is Thine pleasure man is absorbed in Thy Name and when it is Thy will he becomes pleasing to Thee.
Nanak makes one supplication (that he may walk according to Thy will). All else is to practice false-hood.
First Guru.
As Thou art great all the greatness emanates from Thee. Being good Thou doest nothing but Good.
When Thou art True then all that flows from Thee is true. Absolutely nothing is false.
Talking, seeing, uttering, living, walking and perishing are from Thee, O Lord.
Nanak, the True Lord Himself creates by His order and in His order He keeps all the beings.
Pauri.
Fearlessly serve the True Guru and thy wandering shall cease.
Do thou that work, the work which the True Guru asks thee to do.
If the True Guru becomes merciful, then alone can we dwell on the Name.
The illustrious and genuine profit of the devotional service of God is obtained through the Guru.
The way-ward person is in the inky darkness of falsehood and practises falsehood.
Arrive at the True Guru's gate and repeat the True Name, O man.
The true ones are called within the mansion of the True Master.
Nanak the truthful person is, for ever true and is absorbed in the True Being.
Slok, First Guru.
The dark-age is the scalpel, the kings are the butchers and righteousness has taken wings and flown.
In this no-moon night of false-hood, the moon of truth is not seen to rise anywhere.
In my search, I have become bewildered.
In darkness, I find no path.
By taking pride, mortal bewails in pain.
Says Nanak by what means can the mortal be delivered?
Third Guru.
In This dark age the Lord's praise has appeared as a light for the world.
Through the Guru, a few swim across the life-ocean.
The Lord bestows this light to him on whom He casts His merciful glance.
Nanak, through the Guru he (such a man) receives the Name jewel.
Pauri.
Between the devotees of God and worldly men there can never be an alliance.
The Creator Himself is infallible Duped by any one he errs not.
His saints, who practise the whole truth, the Maker blends with His own self.
The world-hardened men, who eat poison by repeatedly telling lies the Lord Himself has led astray.
They know not the ultimate reality of departure and increase the poison of lust and wrath.
The devotees, who night and day meditate on the Name perform God's service.
Becoming the slave of the Lord's slaves they efface their self conceit from within them.
Bright are their countenances in the Husband's Court, and they are adorned with the True Name.
Slok, Fist Guru.
Who praise God in the early morn and meditate on Him with single mind;
They are the perfect kings and they die fighting against the deadly sins at the right time.
In the second watch there are many ways in which the attention of the mind is scattered.
Many fall into the unfathomable water, suffer immersions and cannot emerge out.
In the third watch, when both hunger and thirst bark, the morsels of food are put in the mouth.
What is eaten become ashes, but still man has got friendship with eating.
In the fourth watch drowsiness comes he closes his eyes and goes into the dream-land.
Rising up he again engages in strife and sets the stage as if he is to live for hundreds of years.
If, at all times and every moment, during the eight watches of the day man feels fear of God.
O Nanak! the Lord abides within his mind and true becomes his ablution.
Second Guru.
They are the perfect bankers, who have found the perfect Lord.
Throughout the eight watches of the day they remain unconcerned, and in the love of one God.
Hardly any one can obtain the sight of the infinitely beauteous Lord.
Through perfect good fortune man meets the Perfect Guru whose speech is perfect.
Nanak if the Guru makes man perfect his weight decreases not.
Pauri.
When Thou art mine what more do I desire? I tell the truth O my Lord!
She, who is defrauded by the thievish worldly affairs, obtains not her Lord's palace.
Her mind is so much stone-hearted that she loses the chance of his service.
The heart, where-in the True Lord is not found that should be destroyed and re-built.
When weighed with the perfect weights how can her weight be found to be correct?
If her ego goes, no one will say she is of short weight.
The genuine are assayed and accepted in the Court of the All-seeing Lord.
The true merchandise is in only one shop. It is obtained from the perfect Guru.
Slok Second Guru.
During the eight watches of the day and night, O mortal! destroy eight things (five deadly sins and three qualities) and in the ninth place, do subdue thy body.
Within the body are the nine treasures of the unique Lord's Name. The virtuous and profound persons search those treasures.
Making the Guru their spiritual guide the fortunate sing the praises of the Lord, O Nanak!
In the fourth watch of the early morn, yearning arises in the mind of the men of exalted understanding.
They have friendship with the streams and in their mind and mouth is the True Name.
There ambrosia is distributed and the fortunate receive Name's gift.
The body is assayed like gold and takes on the colour of spiritual progress.
If the jeweler casts His merciful glance it is not again put in the fire.
During the other seven watches, it is good to speak the truth and sit with the literates.
There vice and virtue are discriminated and the capital of falsehood decreases.
There the counterfeit are cast aside and the genuine are applauded.
Vain is man's utterance, O Nanak! the weal and woe are near (in the power of) the Master.
Second Guru.
Air is the Guru, water is the Father, earth the great Mother,
and day and night the two male nurse and female nurse, in whose lap the entire world plays.
The merits and demerits shall he read in the presence of the Righteous Justice.
According to their respective deeds some shall be near some distant from the Lord.
They who have pondered on the Name and have departed after putting in toil.
Nanak, their faces shall be bright and many shall be emancipated along with them.
Pauri.
The True food is the Lord's love. So says the True Guru.
With the True Good I am appeased and with Truth I am delighted.
True are the citadels and hamlets of him, who abides in his own home.
When the True Guru is pleased man receives the Name and flowers in the Lord's love.
In the Court of the True Lord, one cannot enter through false-hood.
By telling nothing but untruth, that mansion of the Lord is lost.
No one obstructs the way of him, who goes with the True Name's flag.
By hearing, realising and uttering the True Name one is called to the Lord's palace.
Slok, First Guru.
If I put on the dress of fire, found a house in snow and make iron my food;
All the troubles if I drink as water and drive before me the earth;
By placing the firmament in the balance pan, were I to weight it with a mere copper put in the hind pan;
Were I to become so large that I could nowhere be contained and were I to snaffle and lead by the nose one and all;
If I possess so much power within my mind that I perform and also at my bidding cause others perform such things but all this is in vain.
As great as the Lord is so great are His gifts. He bestows them according to His pleasure.
Nanak he on whom the Lord casts His merciful glance, obtains the glory of the True Name.
Second Guru.
The mouth is not sated with speech and the ears are not sated with hearing.
The eyes are not sated with what they see. Each organ is the purchaser of one sort of trait.
The hunger of the hungry departs not. By mere words of mouth the hunger goes not.
O Nanak! only then, is the hungry man satiated when, by uttering His praises, he gets absorbed in the Praise-worthy Lord.
Pauri.
Without the True Lord, all are false and practise falsehood.
Without the True One, the false are bound down and goaded on.
Without the True Master, the body is dust and is mingled with dust.
Without the True Master, the dress and food are all hunger.
Without the True Lord, the false attain not God's Court.
Being attached to false avarice man loses the Master's mansion.
The whole world is deceived by the deceitful mammon and continues coming and going.
In the body is the fire of desire. With God's Name it is quenched.
Slok, First Guru.
Nanak the Guru is the tree of contentment, whose flower is faith, and fruit the Divine knowledge.
Irrigated with the Lord's love, it remains evergreen and it ripens by virtuous deeds and meditation.
Honour is obtained by partaking of its relish. Of all the gifts this is the greatest gift.
First Guru.
The Guru is the tree of gold, its leaves are corals, and its blossoms jewels and rubies.
That plant bears the fruit of emerald of the utterance of the Guru's mouth. Within the heart of his heart the Guru beholds the Lord.
Nanak it is obtained by him on whose face and forehead the writ of good fortune is recorded.
The sixty-eight places of pilgrimage seek the shelter of the most exalted Guru's feet, whom they ever worship.
Cruelty, worldly love, avarice and wrath are the four streams of fire.
By falling into them the mortal is burnt, O Nanak! Emancipation is obtained by cleaving to good deed.
Pauri.
Whilst living subdue death and thou shalt not regret afterwards.
False is the world but a few understand this.
Man professes not live for truth and runs after worldly affairs.
The inauspicious time of annihilating death stands over the head of the world.
Under the Lord's command, seizing an opportunity, death's myrmidon strikes the club on man's head.
The Lord Himself bestows His love and enshrines it within the mortal's mind.
When the life's measure is full not a trice or moment's delay is caused in departing.
Through the Guru's grace by knowing the True Lord the mortal is absorbed in Him.
Slok, First Guru.
The bitterness of the gourd, colocynth, colotropis procera, thorn-apple and the seed of aza-dirachta,
abides in the mind and mouth of him, who remembers thee not, O my Lord!
Nanak, whom should I tell that who-so are without good destiny are annihilated.
First Guru.
The bird soul with (on account of) its actions is sometimes exalted and sometimes debased.
Sometime it perches on the sandal tree and sometimes on the branch of colotropis procera. Sometimes it loves to soar high.
Nanak, The Lord sticks to the habit of driving the beings according to His will.
Pauri.
Some explain and expound on the Lord and depart whilst describing and narrating Him.
The vedas speak of and interpret the Lord but know not His limit.
Not through studying but through understanding the Lord's secret is found.
Six are the creeds of the Shashtras but rare is the person who merges in the True One through them.
The Name of the True and inscrutable person embellishes the man.
He who believes in the Name of the Infinite One, attains His Court.
I, the minstrel, make obeisance unto the Creator and sing His praises.
Within his mind, Nanak enshrines the Lord who is but one all the ages through.
Slok, Second Guru.
If one be a charmer of scorpions and goes to handle serpents,
with his own hands he applies a brand to his ownself then.
It is the Master's order from the very beginning that he suffers and exceedingly great buffet.
An apostate who contends with a pious person gets abrogated. This is the True Justice.
He Himself is the Lord of both the ends, beholds and discriminates.
Nanak know it like this that everything is according to His will.
Second Guru.
Nanak if man assays his own-self, then alone deem him an assayer.
If one understands both the disease and the medicine, then consider him a shrewd physician.
The mortal ought not to transact idle business in the way, but should deem himself to be a guest.
He should converse with the knowers of the Primal Lord and ought to abrogate the harmful sins.
The virtuous person, who walks not the way of avarice and abides in truth, becomes acceptable.
If an arrow be aimed at the sky, how can the arrow reach there?
The sky above is inaccessible Know that the arrow will recoil on the archer.
Pauri.
The bride loves her Spouse and with His affection she is embellished.
She perform His devotional service day and night and is not held back by restraining.
In Lord's palace, she has her abode and with his Name she is bedecked.
She the meek one makes the hearty supplication.
She looks beauteous near her Husband and walks, according to His order.
With her dear bosom and friends she says prayers before her Lord.
Accursed is the abode and reproachable the life of those who are without the Lord's Name.
She is ornamented with her Lord's Name and quaffs Nectar.
Slok, First Guru.
The desert is not satiated with rain and the hunger of fire is not quenched.
The King is satiated not with his dominion and who has ever filled the oceans?
How many inquiries and interrogations should Nanak make regarding the True Name? His hunger for it never appeases.
Second Guru.
Until the mortal knows the Pervading God his human birth is unprofitable.
That world-ocean few cross over by the Guru's grace.
Potent to do all the works is the Lord. After deep deliberation Nanak says this.
The creation is in the control of the Creator who by His might is sustaining it.
Pauri.
In the Court of the Lord the minstrel abides.
By singing the praises of the True Master His heart lotus has bloomed.
By obtaining perfect understanding from the Master in his mind he is transported.
The enemies have been beaten off, so the friends are pleased.
The right path is shown unto them who serve the True Sat Guru.
By meditating on the True Name, the fear of death is annulled.
The eulogist utters the ineffable Lord, and is adorned with His Name.
By holding fast the capital of virtue. Nanak has met the venerable Beloved Lord.
Slok, First Guru.
Born from the sins and by committing sins man ever falls into sins.
By washing the sins are never removed, even though hundreds of washings be had.
Nanak, if the Master forgives the mortals are forgiven, otherwise they are shoe-beaten.
First Guru.
Absurd is the request, O Nanak to ask for weal by abandoning woe.
Pleasure and pain are the two raiments given to the mortal from the Lord's Court to be worn.
Where one is bond to lose by utterance, it is good to keep mum there.
Pauri.
Looking around in four directions I searched my inner-self.
There I saw the invisible True Lord, the Creator.
I strayed in the wilderness. The Guru has shown me the way.
Hail unto the True Sat Guru through whom I have remembered the True Lord.
The Guru has lighted the lamp and within my home I have found the emerald.
The True Persons who praise the True Name remain in peace.
Awe overtakes them who are without the Lord's fear. They are destroyed by self-conceit.
Having forgotten the Name the world is roaming about like a demon.
Slok, Third Guru.
In fear the man is born, in fear he dies and fear ever abides within his mind.
Nanak if man dies in the Lord's fear, fruitful becomes his advent.
Third Guru.
Without God's fear the mortal lives very long and enjoys pleasure of pleasures.
Nanak, if he dies without God's fear he will get up and depart with the blackened face.
Pauri.
When the True Guru becomes merciful, desire is fulfilled then.
When the True Guru becomes merciful, man grieves not ever.
When the True Guru becomes merciful, man knows no pain then.
When the True Guru becomes merciful then man enjoys God's love.
When the True Guru becomes merciful, then what fear has man of death?
When the True Guru becomes merciful then the body is ever in peace.
When the True Guru becomes merciful then the nine treasures are obtained.
When the True Guru becomes merciful then is the man absorbed in the True Lord.
Slok First Guru.
They have their heads plucked, drink dirty water and repeatedly beg and eat other's leavings.
They spread out ordure with their mouths suck its ordure and dread to look at water.
With hands smeared with ashes, they have their heads plucked like sheep.
The daily routine of their mothers and fathers they give up and their kith and kin bewail loudly.
For them none gives barley rolls and food on leaves nor performs last rites nor lights earthen lamp. After death where shall thy be cast?
The sixty-eight places of pilgrimage grant them no refuge, and Pandits eat not their food.
They ever remain filthy day and night and bear not sacrificial marks on their brow.
They ever sit in groups as if in mourning and go not into the True Court.
With begging bowls slung round their loins and a clew in their hands they walk in single file.
They are neither disciples of Gorakh nor adorers of Shiva nor Muslim judges and Muslim preachers.
Ruined by God, they walk about disgraced and their entire multitude goes contaminated.
The beings that Lord alone kills and restores to life. None else can protect them.
They go without giving alms and performing ablutions. The dust alights on their plucked heads.
From within water came out the jewel, when the mountain of gold was made the churning staff.
The gods appointed the sixty-eight places of pilgrimage, where festivals are celebrated and hymns are recited.
After ablution the Muslims say prayers after wash the Hindus perform worship and the wise ever bathe.
The dead and the living are purified when water is poured on their heads.
Nanak, the head-plucked are devils. This word of advice pleases them not.
When it rains, there is happiness. The key to the life of beings is contained in water.
When it rains there is corn sugar cane and cotton which affords covering to all.
When it rains the cows ever graze grass and the women churn the curd of their milk.
By putting that clarified butter havan, sacred feasts and worships are ever performed and other ceremonies are adorned.
The Guru is the ocean and all his teachings are the river by bathing where-in greatness is obtained.
Nanak, if the plucked-heads bathe not, then seven handfuls of ashes be on their heads.
Second Guru.
What can cold do to fire and how can night affect the sun?
What effect can darkness have on the moon? What effect has caste on air and water?
What should the earth do with chattels, where-in all the things are produced?
Nanak then alone the mortal is deemed honourable when that lord preserves his honour.
Pauri.
Thine, O my wonderous True Lord! I have ever sung the praises.
Thou alone hast the eternal court. All others are subject to coming and going.
They, who ask for the gift of the True Name, are like Thee.
True is Thine command. With Thine Name the Man is bedecked.
Believing in Thee, O Lord! man receives from Thee Divine knowledge and Thy meditation.
By Thine grace, man obtains the mark of honour which cannot be effaced by effacing.
Thou the True Bestower ever givest. Thine gifts become more and more.
Nanak asks for the gift which is pleasing unto Thee, O Lord!
Slok, Second Guru.
They, whom the instruction (of Guru Nanak) has taught and put on the right path remain absorbed in the praises of the True Lord.
What instruction can be imparted to them, who have God-incarnate Nanak as their Guru?
First Guru.
He, whom He Himself causes to understand understands Him.
Whom the Lord Himself gives knowledge, he comes to know every thing.
The preacher regularly preaches and sermons but longs for wealth.
The Commander has created the entire creation.
He Himself understands the mental out-look of all.
Nanak, the Lord Himself has uttered forth the Word.
Doubt departs from Him who receives the gift.
pauri.
Me, the bard out of work, the Lord has applied to His service.
In the very beginning He gave me the order to sing His praises night and day.
The Master summoned the minstrel to His True Court.
He clothed me with the robe of His true Honour and eulogy.
Since then the True Name has become my ambrosial food.
They, who under the Guru's instruction, eat this food to their satisfaction, obtain peace.
By singing the Guru's hymns, I the minstrel spread the Lord's glory.
Nanak, by praising the True Name I have obtained the perfect Lord.
Rag Gauri Guareri, 1st Guru, Chaupade Dupde.
There is but one God. True is His Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His form. He is without fear, without enmity, unborn and self-illumined. By Guru's favour He is obtained.
Lord's fear is very great and very heavy.
Paltry is man's intellect and the speech, that he delivers.
Walk by placing Lord's fear on thy head, and bear the weight thereof.
He, on whom is the grace, of the Merciful, through the Guru, meditates on Him.
Without Lord's fear none can cross the world-ocean.
Lord's fear and dread bedecks man's love for Him. Pause.
The body's fire of fear is burnt away by the dread of God.
With Lord's fear and fright, man's speech is fashioned and decorated.
What is fashioned without Lord's fear is altogether worthless.
Useless is the mould and useless the stroke thereon.
The desire for worldly plays arises in man's intellect.
Inspite of thousands of clevernesses, the heat of Lord's fear comes not unto play.
Nanak, the speech of an apostate is nonsense,
and worthless & absurd is his preaching.
Gauri, Mahala 1
Place God's fear in thy heart, and let thy home be in His dread. Thy fear of Death, then shall be frightened away.
What sort of fear is that, by which the fear of death is frightened?
Without Thee, there is no other place of rest.
Whatsoever happens, is all according to Thy will.
Fear, if we have any other fear than that of the Lord.
To be awed with fear, other than the fear of God, is but mind's tumult. Pause.
By itself the soul dies not, neither it is drowned, nor swims across.
He, Who did make the creation, does everything.
By Lord's order man comes, and by His order he goes.
Before and after this birth, as well, the mortal remain absorbed in His fiat.
In whom there is cruelty, worldly love, desire, and egotism,
in them, like the water of a stream, there is a great hunger.
For the Guruwards, Lord's fear is the food, drink, and main-stay.
Without entertaining Lord's fear the fools perish away.
If mortal has someone as his own then that some one is very rare indeed.
All are Thine, and thou, O sublime Lord art of all.
To whom belong all living beings, wealth and property,
Nanak, it is not easy to describe and explain Him.
Gauri, 1st Guru.
I consider wisdom as my mother, contentment as my father,
and truthfulness as my brother. These are my good relations.
People describe Him, but he cannot be described, in the least.
Thine omnipotence, O Master cannot be appraised. Pause.
Modesty and understanding have become two parents-in-law.
Good deeds I have made and accepted as my wife.
Union with saints is my time of wedding, and separation from the world my marriage.
Says Nanak, from such a union has sprung truth as my off-spring.
Gauri 1st Guru.
The body is the union of air water and fire.
It is the plaything of the fickle and unsteady mind.
It has nine door, and tenth the gate,
O theologian understand and reflect on this.
That Lord is the utterer, speaker and the listener.
He, who reflect upon his own-self is the knower of God. Pause.
The body is the dust, and the wind speaks therein.
Consider, O wise-man, who it is that has died.
It is the inner-understanding, strife and ego which have died.
He, Who is the seer, dies not.
The reason thou goest to the banks of the holy streams,
that invaluable jewel is in thy mind.
The Brahmans continue to read, discuss and enter into controversies,
but understand not the thing, which is within.
I have not died, rather my calamitous ignorance is dead.
He, who is every where contained, dies not.
Says Nanak, the Guru has revealed unto me the pervading Lord,
and now, none seems me to die or to be born.
Gauri, 1st Guru, Dakhni.
One who continually hears, understands, and believes in God's Name,
I am forever a sacrifice unto him.
When the lord himself strayest, the mortal finds no place or abode.
Thou impartest understanding, and unitest with Thy union.
May I obtain the Name, which shall go with me.
Without God's Name, all are chained by death. Pause.
My cultivation and trade lie in the support of Lord's Name.
Of the seed of sin and virtue the mortal is the bundle.
Lust and wrath are the wounds in the mind.
The evil-minded forget God's Name and depart.
True is the instruction of the True Guru.
By knowing the real worth of the True Name, the body and mind become cool.
The test of the Guru-ward is this, that in the world, he remains detached like the water-lily in water, or the lotus in water.
Imbued with God's Name, he is sweet like the juice of sugarcane.
On the receipt of the order of God the body castle, with ten gates, came into existence.
Therein abide the five evil passions, together with the infinite Divine light.
The Lord Himself is the weighable merchandise and Himself the merchant.
Nanak God's Name is man's regenerator.
Gauri 1st Guru.
Can it be known, whence the man has come?
Where has he sprung from and whither does he go and merge?
How is he bound down, and how does he obtain emancipation?
How is he easily absorbed in the Imperishable Lord?
He, who has the Name in his heart, the Name Nectar in his mouth, and remembers the Name of Lord,
in Man-lion form, becomes desire-free, like God. Pause.
Subject to natural law the man comes, and subject to the natural law he departs.
From mind's desires he is sprung, and in mind's desires he is absorbed.
The Guru-ward is emancipated and falls not into entanglements.
He ponders over the Divine word, and is delivered through God's Name.
Many birds settle on a tree by night.
Some are happy and some unhappy. Through mind's allurement they all perish.
When the night passes away, they look to the sky.
In ten directions they fly according to the recorded destiny.
They, who are associated with the Name, seem the world a temporary but in pastureland.
The poisonous pitcher of lust and wrath, at last bursts.
Without the merchandise of the Name, the body-house and the mind-shop are empty.
By meeting the Guru, the adamant shutters are opened.
The saint is met through primal destiny.
Lord's perfect people rejoice in Truth.
Who automatically obtain their Lord by surrendering their soul and body,
Nanak falls at the feet of those.
Gauri, 1st Guru.
In lust, wrath and wealth, thy mind is engrossed.
On account of secular love in thy mind, thou art awake in falsehood and sin.
Thou hast amassed the capital of vice and greed.
With the immaculate Name O my mind, do thou swim across the life-stream.
Wonderous, blest thou art, O my True Lord. I have but Thine support.
I am a sinner, Thou alone art pure. Pause.
Because of fire and water, the breath roars loudly.
The tongue and the sexual organ each enjoys a relish.
The evil-eyed possess not the fear and love of God.
If man effaces his self-conceit, he obtains the Name, then.
He, who dies through Gurbani, dies not again.
Without such death, how can man attain perfection.
The mind is engrossed in the expansion and duality.
Whatever the Immortal Lord does that comes to pass.
I shall board the ship, when my turn comes.
They, who are stopped from embarking upon the ship shall be thrashed in Lord's court.
Blest, is the court of the Guru, where the praises of the True Lord are sung.
Nanak, the unique Lord is pervading heart and home.
Gauri 1st Guru.
The inverted lotus has turned upwards through Lord's meditation,
From the tenth-gate firmament, the nectar-line has commenced to trickle.
God, the Enemy of pride, is pervading the three worlds, Himself.
O my mind, entertain not any doubt.
By mind's propitiation, the Name's immortalising Nectar is quaffed. Pause.
Win thy life game, O man and accept in thy mind, the truth of death.
When self is effaced, the Supreme Soul is comprehended in the mind itself.
By the dawning of God's Grace, man comes to recognise His mansion, from within his home.
God's Name is the true continence, chastity and ablution at the places of pilgrimage.
Of what avail is it to make extensive ostentation?
The Omnipresent Lord is the Knower of the hearts of men.
If I have faith in another, then, I would go to another's house.
Whom should I beg? For me there is no other place.
Nanak, by Guru's instruction, I am absorbed in the Supreme Lord,
Gauri 1st Guru.
When the true Guru meets, he shows the way to die in life.
The joy of remaining alive, after such a death, is pleasing to my mind.
Having abrogated my ego, I have reached the tenth gate.
Getting recorded the time of death, men did come into the world, and cannot stay longer.
They should, therefore, embrace God's meditation and abide in God's sanctuary. Pause.
When the true Guru meets, then does duality take to heels.
The heart lotus blooms, and the mind gets attached to the Lord God.
He, who remains dead in life obtains Supreme bliss hereafter.
By meeting the true Guru, one becomes truthful, abstinent, and pure.
By walking in Guru's way man becomes the highest of the high.
By being endowed with Lord's grace, the fear of death is destroyed,
By uniting unto Guru's union, mortal sinks into Lord's lap.
Showing his mercy, the Guru reveals Lord's mansion, within man's own house.
Nanak, effacing his ego, the Guru unites man with the Master.
Gauri 1st Guru.
Past actions none can erase.
What do I know what shall befall me hereafter?
Whatever is His will, that comes to pass.
Without God there is no other doer.
I know not how great is Thy bounty, and how great is Thine gift!
Good actions, religion and high caste are contained in Thy Name, O Lord. Pause.
Thou art so great the donor and Giver,
that Thine treasures of meditation run not short.
It is never right to take pride.
Man's life and body are all at Thy disposal.
Thou takest and givest life, and forgiving unitest the mortal with Thee.
As is Thy will, so do Thou cause me to remember Thy Name,
Thou art all-Wise, All-seeing, and All-true, O my over Lord,
Grant unto me Guru's instruction, my faith is in Thee.
He, whose mind is imbued with the love of the Lord, has no filth in his body.
By Guru's words, the true Lord is recognised.
My might is in Thee and my greatness in Thy Name.
Nanak abides in the sanctuary of Thine devotees.
Gauri 1st Guru.
He, who utters the unutterable God, and quaffs Nectar,
forgets other fears, and gets absorbed in Lord's Name.
Why should we fear, when all the fears sink in Lord's fear?
Through the instruction of perfect Guru I have recognised the Master. Pause
Within whose mind has the capital of the Omnipresent God's Name,
is blessed automatically with natural ease.
The wayward, whom the Lord puts to slumber, evening and morning,
are bound to death here and hereafter.
They in whose heart, and night abides the Pervading God, are perfect.
Nanak, they cast off their doubt, and blend with the Lord.
Gauri 1st Guru.
He who loves the three qualities continues coming and going.
The four Vedas describe only the visible Forms.
They explain and expound the three mental states.
The fourth state of communion with the Lord, is known through the Divine True Guru.
Through Lord's meditation, and Guru's service, the mortal swims across.
Again, he is not born and he dies not. Pause.
Everyone talks of the four cardinal boons,
twenty-seven Simritis, six Shashtras, and the leading pandits speak of them as well,
Without the Guru none gets at their meaning and real significance.
The wealth of salvation is obtained by the devotional service of god.
Within whose mind that God abides,
Through the Guru, he obtains His meditations.
By God's worship, emancipation and celestial bliss are procured.
By Guru's instruction supreme happiness is obtained.
He, who has met the Guru, himself beholds God, and causes others to behold Him.
Amidst hopes, the Guru has instructed him to remain without hope.
He is the Master of the meek, and the Giver of peace to all.
Nanak's mind is imbued with the love of God's feet.
Gauri cheti 1st Guru.
O body, thinking thyself immortal thou livest in peace, but this world is a play,
Thou practisest avarice covetousness, great, false-hood, and carriest many, burdens.
O body! I have seen, thee, wallowing like ashes on the earth.
Hearken, hearken to my instruction.
The good deeds done shall abide with thee, O my soul, thou shalt not, again find such opportunity. Pause.
I say to thee, O my body. Listen carefully to my advice.
Thou slanderest, and praisest others and indulgest in false backbiting,
Thou, O mind, beholdest another's vine (women) and committest theft and evil deeds.
When the soul swan departs, thou remainest behind, and becomest like an abandoned woman.
Thou, O body abidest as if in a dream. What good deed hast thou done?
When I took something by stealth, it was then pleasing to the mind.
I have no honour in this world, and shall have no shelter in the world beyond. I have lost my human life in vain.
I have become very miserable, O father, Nanak and none cares for me. Pause.
The Turkish steed, gold, silver and loads of raiment,
Accompany not any one, O Nanak. They are left behind in this World, O fool.
Crystalline-sugar and raisins I have all tasted, The Name alone is Nectar sweet, O Lord.
By giving (digging) deep foundations, man constructs the walls. Such edifices, at last become a heap of dust.
The man amasses and hoards riches and gives to none. The fool thinks that all is his own,
Golden Ceylon and gold palaces (remained not with Ravana.)The riches belong to none.
Hear O foolish and ignorant mind,
only His will is carried out. Pause.
My Banker is the great Lord, I am his petty dealer.
The soul, and body are all His capital. He Himself kills and re-animates.
Gauri Cheti 1st Guru.
Others are five; I am but one mortal. How shall I protect my hearth and home, O my soul.
The ever and daily beat and plunder me. Before which person, should I lodge a complaint?
Utter the Name of the venerable Pervading Lord, O my soul.
Before thee is the formidable, and numerous army of death. Pause.
God has erected the body temple, and has put doors to it, and in it is sitting the soul woman.
Deeming the body as immortal the damsel, ever disports about and those five evil ones continue plundering her.
Death demolishes the edifice plunders the temple, and damsel the lone one is captured.
Death bendgeon strikes her, her neck is loaded with chains and those five ones take to their heels.
The wife wants gold and silver and the friends desire good food.
Nanak, man commits sins for their sake. He shall go bound to the city of death.
Gauri Cheti 1st Guru.
They are thine ear-rings, the ear rings which thou hast in thy mind. Make thou the body the patched coat.
Subjugate thy five disciples and make this mind thy staff, O yogi.
Like this, thou shalt find the way to true yoga.
The Name alone is eternal. All else is perishable. Apply thy mind to this food of fruits and tubers. Pause.
If great God is gained by having one's head shaved at the Ganges, I have already made Great God my Ganges.
The one lord is the saviour of the three worlds. The blind man remembers Him not.
Thou practisest hypocrisy and appliest thy mind to mere words. Thy doubt shall never depart.
If thou fix thy mind on one Lord's feet, why shouldst thou, then, run after avarice and greed?
By remembering the Bright Lord, thy soul shall be absorbed in Him.
Why utterest thou so much deceit O Yogi? Pause.
The body is mad, and the mind is silly. Thy Life passes away in practising I-am-ness.
Supplicates Nanak: when the naked body is burnt, then afterwards, the soul regrets.
Gauri Cheti 1st Guru.
O man, if thou fix thy heart on the Lord, thou shalt realise that He alone is the panacea, charm and herb if every ill.
Do thou, O man, attain to the Lord, the Destroyer of the evil deed of many past birth.
The one lord is pleasing to my mind.
In thine three qualities, O Lord, the world is engrossed, and it cannot know the Unknowable. Pause.
The riches is sweet like molasses and sugar to the body. We are carrying the load of mammon.
Nothing us discerned in the dark night, and the death mouse is gnawing the rope of life, O brother.
The more the perverse person acts waywardly, the more the pain he suffers. The pious person obtains honour.
Whatever he does that alone happens. The past actions cannot be effaced.
They, who contract Lord's love, and are imbued with Him, remain completely filled and get not emptied.
If Nanak be the dust of their feet, then, he, the ignorant one, might procure something.
Gauri Cheti 1st Guru.
Of whom is the mother, of whom the father, and from which place have we come?
From within fire and bubble of water are we sprung. For what purpose were we created?
O My Master, who can know Thine merits.
My demerits cannot be recounted. Pause.
We Saw (assumed) the forms of numerous trees and plants, and many a time we were born and beasts.
Many times we entered the family of serpents, and many times we were flown as birds.
The man breaks into shops strong palaces of cities, and stealing therefrom comes home.
He looks in front of him, he looks behind him, but where can he hide himself from Thee.
I have seen banks of sacred streams, the nine regions shops, cities, and market places.
Taking the scale, the trader began to weigh his actions within his heart.
My sins are as immeasurable as is the water with which the seas and oceans are filled.
Shoe mercy, and extend a little pity and float me sinking stone.
Man's soul is burning like fire and the scissors is cutting his inner-self.
Prays Nanak, if he recognises Lord's order, then, day and night, he would have peace.
Gauri Bairagan, 1st Guru.
Man loses his nights in sleeping and loses his days in eating.
Human life is like a jewel. It goes in exchange for a shell.
He known not the Name of the Pervading God.
O fool, thou shalt, again repent afterwards. Pause
He puts (buries) the perishable wealth in the earth but desires not the Endless Lord.
They, who have departed, craving for the perishable riches, have returned losing the Boundless One.
If one could take by his own taking (effort), then, everyone would become fortunate.
Even though all desire to be fortunate, yet their destiny is decided according to their deeds.
Nanak, who made the creation He does take care of it.
The master's mandate cannot be known. He grants greatness to any He likes.
Gauri Bairagan, 1st Guru.
Were I to be a she-fawn, live in a forest, and pick up and eat fruits and tubers
I am ever a sacrifice unto my master who is obtained through Guru's grace.
I am the retail-dealer of my all pervading lord.
Thy name is my merchandise, and trade. Pause.
Were I to become a cuckoo, and live on a mango-tree, I would still meditate on my master's world.
I would then, easily meet my spouse, whose sight and beauty is unsurpassed
Were I to become a fish, and abide in water, I would, even then, remember him who watches over all the sentient beings.
My husband dwells on this side, and on that. I would meet him by stretching forth mine arms.
Were I to be a female snake, and dwells in the ground I would, still, reside in my lord's name, and my dread would depart.
Nanak, they are, ever, happy married wives, whom the luminous lord blends with his light.
Gauri Purbi Deepki. 1st Guru.
There is but one god, by the favour of the true Guru he is obtained.
The house in which the creator is meditated upon, and his praises are repeated
In that house sing the sing of praise, and remember the Maker.
Do thou sing the songs of praise of my fearless Lord.
I am a sacrifice unto the song of joy by which eternal solace is procured. Pause.
Ever and ever the Lord watches over His beings, and the Giver is beholding one and all.
No price can be put on Thine gifts. How can then that Giver's (Thy) estimation be had?
The year and date (of wedding) is recorded (fixed). Meet together (my mates, and) pour oil (at the door).
Give me your blessings, O friends, that I may obtain union with my Master.
This summon is sent to every house, and such call daily come.
Meditate on the summoner, O Nanak, that day is approaching near.
Rag Gauri Guareri. 3rd Guru Chaupade.
There is but one God. By true Guru's grace He is obtained.
By meeting the Guru, God is met.
That Lord Himself unites in His Union.
My Lord Himself known all the contrivances.
By His command, He blends with-Himself those, who recognize His Name.
Through the fear of the True Guru, doubt and other's dread vanish,
He who remains immersed in Guru's awe gets absorbed in the love of the True One. Pause
On meeting the Guru, God easily, resides within man's mind.
My Master is great. His worth cannot be appraised.
Under Guru's instruction, I praise Him, who has no limit, this or that end.
My lord is the pardoner. May He forgive me.
On meeting the Guru, all wisdom and understanding are obtained.
The mind is rendered immaculate and that True Lord dwells there-in.
If man abides in truth, true became all his deeds.
The most sublime occupation is the meditation of Lord's Name.
Through the Guru, the true service is performed.
Through the Guru, a few recognise God's Name.
Guru, the bestower and benefactor lives for ever.
May Nanak, enshrine affection for God's Name.
Gauri Guareri, 3rd Guru.
Rare is the person, who obtains divine knowledge from the Guru.
He, who understands God, through the Guru, becomes acceptable.
From the Guru True Lord's meditation is obtained.
From the Guru is gained the door of Salvation.
Through perfect good fortune, one meets the Guru,
and is easily absorbed in the True Lord. Pause.
By meeting the Guru the fire of desire is quenched.
Through the Guru peace comes and dwells in the mind.
Through the Guru man becomes pure, spotless and immaculate.
It is through the Guru that the Lord is met.
Without the Guru, everyone wanders in doubt.
Without the Name, the mortals suffer grievous agony.
He, who gets resigned to Guru's will meditates on Lord's Name.
By the sight of the True Being true honour is obtained.
He alone is the Giver. Why to mention any other?
If He shows mercy, union with the Lord is obtained.
By meeting my Beloved Guru, I sing the praises of the True Lord.
Nanak, by becoming true, I am absorbed in the True One.
Gauri Guareri, 3rd Guru.
True is the place, where the mind is rendered pure.
True is he who abides in truth.
The true Gurbani is known through the four ages.
The True Lord is, all in all, by Himself.
By good luck man meets the society of saints.
Sitting in that sublime place, he sings the glories of God. Pause.
May this tongue burn, that takes to another's love,
and which tastes not God's elixir, and utters dry words.
Without realising the Lord the body and mind become inspid.
Sans Lord's Name, the miserable man departs bewailing.
They, whose tongue, instinctively, tastes God's ambrosia,
by Guru's grace get absorbed in the True Lord.
The tongue, which is imbued with truth, and ponders over Guru's hymns,
quaffs Nectar of the pure stream of God's Name.
The Name is treasured up if the mind-vessel be up-right, but
in the inverted vessel, nothing can be contained.
By Guru's instruction the name of god abides in man's mind.
Nanak, true is the mind-vessel, which is thirsty after God's Name.
Gauri Guareri, 3rd Guru.
Some go on of singing, but their mind drives no solace.
In pride, they sing and all goes in vain.
They, who love the Name, sing God's songs.
They reflect over the Lord word, True Gurbani,
If it pleases the True Guru man continues singing Lord's praises.
Being imbued with the Name, his soul and body look dignified. Pause.
Some there are who sing, and some perform service.
But without hearty love, they attain not to Lord's Name.
True devotion consists in enshrining affection for the Guru's Word.
His beloved, the devotee, ever keeps clasped to his heart.
The fools perform service, and show themselves off.
They continually dance and jump, and suffer great agony.
By dancing and jumping Lord's worship is not performed.
That person, who dies of the Divine Word, achieves Master's devotional worship.
That lover of devotion Himself makes man undertake His meditation.
True devotional service consists in effacing one's self from within.
The True Lord of mine knows all the contrivances.
Nanak, the Lord pardons those, who recognise His Name.
Gauri Guareri, 3rd Guru.
When one subdues his ownself, his straying ceases.
Without dying thus, How can one attain to God?
A few know the medicine to control the mind.
That person, whose mind dies on God's Name, understands Him.
The Lord grants glory to Him, whom He forgives.
Through Guru's grace, God comes, and abides in man's mind. Pause.
If the pious person practises doing good deeds,
then does he come to understand this mind.
The mind is like the wine intoxicated elephant.
The Guru applies the iron-goad, and he is his way-pointer.
The mind is uncontrollable. Rare is the person who subjugates it.
If it finishes the immovable, then, alone it becomes pure.
The Guru-ward has embellished this mind.
From within himself, he has banished the evil ego.
They, whom, he from the very-out-set, keeps united with the Saints union,
never separate, and remain absorbed in the Lord.
His might, He Himself Knows.
Nanak, the one resigned to Guru's will Knows only the Name.
Gauri Guareri, 3rd Guru.
In pride, the whole world is gone mad.
Through duality, it is gone astray in doubt.
He thinks of many anxieties, and recognises not his-own-self.
Attending to his affairs, his nights, and days pass-away.
Meditate on the Pervading Lord in thy mind, O my brother.
The Guru-ward's tongue, enjoys God's elixir. Pause.
The virtuous persons, who serve and in their mind, realise Pervading Lord,
are known throughout the four ages, as the life of the world.
They efface their self-conceit and understand Guru's word.
Lord, the Rewarder of actions, showers His benediction on them.
True are the persons, who by means of Guru's hymns, blend with the Lord,
and who restrain their wandering mind, and keep it steady.
The nine treasures of the Name, they obtain from the Guru.
Through God-incarnate Guru's grace, God comes and abides in their mind.
By uttering the Name of the Lord, the body procures peace and calmness.
The Master abides in the mind Pain of death touches him not.
God Himself is the Master, and Himself the minister.
Nanak, do thou, ever, serve God, the treasure of excellences.
Gauri Guareri, 3rd Guru.
Why forget Him, to whom belong soul and body?
Why forget Him, who is contained amongst all?
By serving whom the mortal is honoured and accepted at Lord's court.
I am a sacrifice unto the Name of God.
I die the very moment, I forget Thee, O my Master. Pause.
Forget Thee they, whom Thou Thyself Leadest astray, O Lord.
Forget Thee they, who are engrossed in another's love.
The ignorant, perverse persons are cast into existences.
They with whom the One Lord is heartily pleased, devote to the service of the True Guru.
They with whom the one Lord is heartily pleased enshrined Him in their heart.
By Guru's instruction they merge into God's Name.
They, who have merit in their treasure, pay attention to Divine Knowledge.
They who have merit in their pleasures shed their ego.
Nanak, is a sacrifice unto those, who are imbued with God's Name.
Gauri Guareri. 3rd Guru.
Thou art ineffable. How can Thou be described?
They, who by Guru's instruction, subdue their mind, are absorbed in thee, O Lord.
Numberless are Thine virtues, and their worth cannot be appraised.
Gurbani is merged in Him, to whom it belongs.
Thine exposition is unutterable. By Guru's instruction it is described. Pause.
Wherever is the True Guru, their is the congregation of Saints.
Wherever is the True Guru, the praises of God, are, automatically sung there.
Wherever is the True Guru, there, through the Name, mortals ego is burnt.
By performing Lord's service, through the Guru, one obtains a seat in His mansion.
By means of the Guru, the Name of the Lord is enshrined in the mind.
Through meditation, the holy man gets absorbed in God's Name.
Himself the Giver gives gifts,
and the man contracts love with the perfect satguru.
Nanak pays homage to those, who are imbued with the Master's Name.
Gauri Guareri. 3rd Guru.
From the Unique Lord, are all forms and colours.
The air, water, and fire are kept together amongst all.
The Lord God beholds the colours of different varieties.
That Lord is a wonder, He is but One.
Rare is the resigned to Guru's will, who deliberates over the Lord. Pause.
The Lord is naturally roaming about (pervading) everywhere.
The Lord has make such a contrivance, that at some site He is unmanifest and at another manifest.
Himself, God awakens some from slumber.
His worth none can appraise,
though all have repeatedly describe it again.
He, who merges into Gurbani, comes to understand God.
He continually hears of and beholds the Lord, and meets Him.
The highest glory, he obtains from the service of the Guru.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the Name, merge into God's Name
Gauri Guareri, 3rd Guru.
The apostate is asleep in the attachment, and affection of riches.
The holy are awake and ponder over lord's excellences and Divine Knowledge.
The persons, who love Lord's Name remain wakeful,
No one, who is awake to Divine comprehension, goes to sleep.
Rare is the one who understands the Immortal One, through the Perfect Guru. Pause.
The unsaintly charlatan never realises the Master.
He talks (in vain), and is hand and glove with wealth.
The blind ignorant never gets reformed.
In this age, emancipation is through Lord's Name.
By Guru's instruction, only a few attain to Master's meditation.
He saves himself, and saves his entire lineage.
In this dark age, no one is attached to good actions and righteousness.
The Darkage took birth in the house of a pariah.
Nanak, sans Lord's Name, none can be emancipated.
Gauri 3rd Guru, Guareri.
True is the Sovereign, and true His order.
They, whose mind is imbued with the True, and care-free God,
enter the True Palace, and merge into the True Name.
Listen thou, O my soul, ponder over the Lord.
Meditate on Pervading God, and thus cross the fearful world ocean. Pause.
In doubt the mortal comes, and in doubt he goes away.
This world is born out of love of mammon.
The self-willed person remembers not the Lord and continues coming and going.
Does the man himself go astray or the Lord Himself leads him astray?
This soul is yoked to the service of another.
It earns great agony and loses its life in vain.
By showering His benediction, the Lord causes man to meet the true Guru.
He, then meditates on the Name alone, and casts away his superstition from within himself.
Nanak, he repeats the Name, and attains to the nine treasures of Lord's Name.
Gauri Guareri, 3rd Guru.
Go, and ask the Guru-wards, who meditate on the lord.
Through Guru's service, the mind is appeased.
Wealth are they, who earn god's Name.
From the Perfect Guru understanding is gained.
Utter Lord God's Name, O my brethren.
God accepts the service and love of the Guru-ward. Pause.
Pure becomes the mind of him, who recognises his ownself.
He is emancipated in life and obtains the Lord.
He sings God's praises, and his intellect is rendered sublime.
He is automatically, absorbed in the Lord.
In duality Lord's service cannot be performed.
In egotism and worldly wealth, the mortal eats the deadly poison.
The sons, family, Home, and riches have fascinated the man.
The blind wayward person comes and goes.
The man, whom Lord God. gives His Name,
performs His devotional service, night and day under Guru's instruction.
Some solitary man understands Guru's teaching.
Nanak, He merges into the Name of the Lord.
Gauri Guareri, 3rd Guru.
Guru's service has born fruit in the four ages.
Very few perfect persons perform this deed.
Inexhaustible is the wealth of God's Name, in which there is no deficiency.
It ever, confers peace here, and honour in God's court.
O my soul, regarding this, entertain no doubt.
Through the service of the exalted Guru, thou shalt quaff the immortalising Nectar. Pause.
They, who serve the True Guru, are the great persons in this world.
They save themselves, and save all their generations.
God's Name, they keep clasped to their heart.
Imbued with Lord's Name, they cross the terrible ocean.
the humble men, who, ever, serve their True Guru,
dispel their pride, and their heart lotus blooms.
they abide in their own home, where the celestial music plays for them.
Dyed with the Name, they remain detached in their home
true is the speech of those, who serve the True Guru.
In all the ages the devotees repeat and utter the words of such persons.
Night and day they meditate on God, the earth sustainer.
Nanak, imbued with Lord's Name, they become immaculate and emancipated.
Gauri Guareri 3rd Guru.
Through very good fortune and actions, the true Guru meets the mortal.
With his mind, he, then enshrines the Name, and, ever, enjoys God's elixir.
Through the Guru, O mortal, meditate on the Name of god.
Win thy life's game and earn the profit of god's Name. Pause.
He, unto whom Gurbani is sweet, obtains divine comprehension, and Lord's meditation.
By Guru's grace, a Few have tasted, and seen it.
One may perform many religious rites and good actions, but
without the Name, accursed and doomed is the Proud person.
One who is bound in chains, and is entrapped in mammons noose, but
O slave Nanak, he is released receiving Divine light through the Guru.
3rd Guru. Gauri Bairagan.
As the cloud rains water on the earth, (so does Gurbani rain Name water). But is there no water in earth?
As the water is contained in the earth, (so is the Name water contained in old scriptures). But the cloud rains in abundance, and without feet (difficulty).
O Father, like this do then dispel thy doubt.
O what-so-ever the Lord makes with his Kind. Like that he goes and mixes with his kind. Pause.
Becoming female and male, what work can they accomplish (without Thine interposition?)
The diverse forms are ever Thine, and they merge into Thee.
For so many births I had gone astray, now when I have obtained Thee, I shall not stray again.
If man merges into Gurbani, He will realise that, whose work it is, He alone knows it well.
Thine is the Gurbani, thou art, and hast Become, all by thyself, where is the doubt
Nanak he whose essence is merged with Lord's essence, does not, again, come under the purview of birth.
Gauri Bairagan 3rd Guru.
The entire world is in the power of death, and is bound to duality.
The wayward go about their business in pride, and are awarded punishment.
O my soul, fix thy attention on Guru's feet.
Through the Guru, obtain the Name treasure; it will deliver you in Lord's court. Pause.
Through mind's obstinacy, men wander in eighty-four lacs of existences, and continue coming and going.
They realise not guru's instruction, and are cast, again and again unto existences through womb.
By Guru's grace, when man understands his ownself, God's Name comes to abide within his mind.
Being imbued with the devotional service of God, night and day, the mortal merges in the peace of His Name.
When man's mind dies of Guru's word, He gains confidence, and banishes his ego and evil.
O servant Nanak, by God's grace, man receives The treasure of His Name and devotion.
Gauri Bairagan 3rd Guru,
The Lord God has ordained that woman is to remain in her parents house for four days.
Glorious is the bride, who, through the Guru, sings the praises of God.
She, who, takes care of virtues in her parents home, obtains an abode at her in -laws.
They to whose mind the Lord Master is pleasing, are, easily absorbed in Him through the Guru.
The beloved dwells in this world, and the world beyond. say, in what way can He be found?
Himself the immaculate Lord is invisible. he unites man with Himself. Pause.
The Lord Himself grants wisdom, and the man meditates on God's Name.
By the greatest good lock is met the True Guru who puts nectar in his mouth.
When his pride and worldliness depart, he easily merges in peace.
He, of Himself is all pervading. and Himself attaches man to his Name.
The perverse, through pride, find not God; they are ignorant and childish.
They perform not true guru's service, and repent again and again.
in the existences of womb they obtain a dwelling, and within the belly, they putrefy,
It so pleases my Creator, that the self-willed may continue wandering about.
My Lord God wrote mortal's full destiny on his forehead in the very beginning.
When man meets the valiant Guru, he ponders over the Name of the Lord God.
God's Name is my father and mother. God is my kinsman and brother.
My Lord, the Master, pardon and blend with thee the worm, slave Nanak.
Gauri Bairagan 3rd Guru.
Receiving Divine knowledge from the True Guru I have deliberated over God's quintessence
My dirty wit has been enlightened by repeating the Name of God, the Enemy of ego.
The Lord has destroyed the Mammon, and my darkness is dispelled.
On whose forehead it is so written from the very out-set, unto them God's Name is dear.
By what means, O saintly persons, may I attain to God by seeing whom I sustain life?
without God, I cannot live even for a moment. Unite me with the Guru, that I may quaff God's Nectar. Pause.
I sing God's praises, and daily hear God's glories, Me, the Lord God has emancipated.
God's elixir, I have gained from the Guru. My mind and body are absorbed therein.
Blest, blest is the true personality of the Guru, who has granted unto me God's meditation.
Him, I have taken, as my Guru, through which Guru, I have obtained God.
The Giver of merits is the Sovereign Lord. I am a sinner.
The sinners sinks like stone. By Guru's instruction God floats them across.
Thou, o, immaculate Lord, are the Bestower of virtues. I am an offender.
My God, save me. I have entered thine asylum. Fools and block heads thou hast saved.
The celestial bliss is obtained by ever thinking of the Lord Master in the mind, under Guru's instruction.
By obtaining within my home Lord God, the Friend, I have sung the songs of joy.
O Lord Master, I make a supplication, show mercy unto me, that I may meditate on the Lord God.
Serf Nanak, asks for the dust of their feet, who have obtained the True Guru.
Gauri Guareri 4th Guru, Chaupade.
There is but one god. By the favour of the true Guru he is obtained.
The Brahmin recites Shastras (the six schools of philosophy), and Smritis (twenty seven Hindu ceremonial treatises).
Yogi cries the Name of his Guru "Gorakh, Gorakh", but
I, a stupid one, repeat only the Name of Lord God.
O Omnipresent Lord! I know not what my condition shall be.
Meditate on God, O my soul. so shalt thou sail over the terrible ocean and get across. Pause.
The solitarian applies ashes to decorate his body.
By abandoning other's women good man practises celibacy.
Ignorant thou I am, but my hope, O my God, rests in thee.
The kshatrya does the deeds of valour,, and obtains chivalry.
The shudra and vaisha do work for others.
I am ignorant and am saved by God's Name.
The entire creation is Thine, Thou Thyself art contained there in.
On the true disciples of true Guru, the Lord bestows glory o, Nanak.
I, blind, have set up God as my support.
Gauri Guareri, 4th Guru.
Of all the discourses, God's discourse is unutterable,
Ponder over God, by meeting the society of His saints and slaves.
Sail across the terrible ocean by hearing the ineffable exposition of god.
O Master of the Universe, unite me with the Saints congregation.
Immersed in God's love, with my tongue I sing the praises of the all-pervading Lord. Pause.
O Master, make me the slave of the slaves of those persons,
who meditate on the Name of Lord god.
Thy serf's service is a commendable engagement.
He who reads out to me the divine discourse of God,
He is heartily pleasing to me.
The very fortunate ones obtain the dust of the feet of Lord's slaves.
They cherish affection for the saintly persons,
who are blessed with the such pre-ordained writ.
Such mortals, O Nanak merge in to the Lord's Name.
Gauri Guareri, 4th Guru.
The mother loves to see the son eat.
The fish loves to bathe in water.
The True Guru loves to but food into the mouth of a disciple of the Guru.
My beloved God, cause me to meet such men of god,
by meeting whom my sorrows may depart. Pause.
As a cow shows love to her strayed calf on meeting it,
As the bride shows affection to her husband, when he returns home,
So is god's slave immersed in affection, when he sings God's praises.
A sparrow-hawk loves the rain water to fall in torrents.
The Master of men (King) loves to see the display of Wealth.
The Godly man loves to meditate on the formless Lord,
The mortal man loves to earn wealth and property.
Guru's Sikh loves to meet and embrace his Guru.
Serf Nanak loves to kiss the feet of god's saints.
Gauri Gaureri, 4th Guru.
The beggar loves to receive alms from the house-Lord.
The hungry man loves to take food.
The disciple of Guru, loves to be satiated by meeting the Guru,
O Lord, grant me thine sight. My hope is in thee.
God! show mercy unto me, and fulfil, my desire. Pause.
The she ruddy-goose love to see the Sun before her face.
Meeting her beloved, her misery is all shed.
Guru's disciple loves to remain in audience of the Guru.
The calf loves to suck the milk with its mouth.
Its mind blooms on seeing its mother.
The Guru's disciple love to be called to the Guru's audience, by the Guru.
All other affections are but false attachment of mammon.
These shall perish like the false and temporary gilding.
Slave Nanak is satiated by enshrining affection for the True Guru.
Gauri Guareri, 4th Guru.
Fruitful is the service of the True Guru,
by meeting whom, I meditate on the Name of God, the Lord Master.
Good many have been emancipated in the wake of those who have remembered God.
O my brethren, the disciples of the Guru, utter ye the name of God.
By repeating God's Name all the sins are washed off. Pause.
When the Guru is met, then the Mind is controlled.
The running about of the five evil passions ceases by God's meditation,
and night and day, the man sings Lord's praises within his body hamlet.
They who apply the dust of the True Guru's feet, to their face,
leave falsehood, and enshrine affection for God.
Their countenance become bright in Lord's court, O brother.
Guru's service is pleasing to God Himself.
Krishna and Balbhadar, contemplated over the Lord, by falling at their Guru's feet.
O Nanak, the Guru-wards, God Himself saves.
Gauri Gaureri. 4th Guru.
God Himself is the yogi, Staff-holder.
God the gardener of the world-forest, Himself is pervading everywhere.
God Himself practises penance and assumes contemplative mood.
Such is my Lord, who is fully filling all the places.
God abides near at hand. He is not far off. pause.
God Himself is the Word and Himself the understanding, which is tuned to its music.
God Himself beholds and He Himself blooms forth.
God Himself recites the Word and He Himself causes others to recite it.
God Himself is the pied-cuckoo and Himself the torrential rain of Name-Nectar.
God Himself is the draught-giver of the Name-Nectar.
God Himself does everything, and Himself emancipates the mortals.
God Himself is the boat, the raft and the boatman.
through Guru's instruction, God Himself delivers the mortals.
O Nanak, God Himself ferries men across the world-ocean.
Gauri Bairagan, 4th Guru.
Thou, O Master, art my Banker. As is the stock-in-trade, that Thou givest me, likewise do I receive.
My God, if becoming Merciful Thou Thyself givest it to me, I would purchase thy name with love.
I am the peddler of the Pervading Lord.
Giving me the capital, the Lord causes me to transact the business of His Name, O man. Pause.
I have earned the profit of the wealth of God's devotion and have become pleasing to the mind of God, the True Banker.
I remember God and I have loaded the merchandise of God's Name. Death's courier, the tax gatherer, draws not near me.
The traders, who deal in other trades, suffer the pangs of mammon of infinite ripples.
As is the business to which God has put them, so is the reward they obtain.
The man, to whom the Master is Merciful and gives, deals in Lord God's trade.
serf Nanak serves God, his Banker and He shall, never, call him to account again
Gauri Bairagan, 4th Guru.
As the mother entertaining the hope of a son, nourishes her foetus, thinking that,
thinking that when grown up, he would earn and give her money to make merry.
So does the man of God bear love to God, who gives him His helping hand.
O my Master, I am silly, save me O my Lord God.
thy slave's praise is thine own glory. Pause.
He, to whose heart Lord God's praises are pleasing rejoices within his palace and home.
His mouth tastes all the sweet dainties, when he sings God's eulogies.
God's slave is the saviour of his family and delivers al the beings of his twenty-one generations, (seven father's, seven mother's and seven of father -in-law.)
Whatever has been done, has been done by God and is God's glory.
My Lord God, all the creatures are Thine. Thou pervadest in them all and causes them to adore Thee.
The Lord causes men to find the treasure of His devotional service and Himself apportions it.
I am Thy slave purchased at a shop, what cleverness can I play?
If Thou, O God, seatest me on a throne, I would still be Thy slave. even if I be a grass-cutter, causes me to utter thine Name.
Servant Nanak is God's slave and magnifies the Lord alone.
Gauri Guareri, 4th Guru.
The cultivator, longingly and heartily takes to husbandry.
he yokes the plough and puts in effort, that his sons and daughters may eat.
Like wise God's slave repeats God's Name that God may, at last, deliver him.
I am ignorant, O my Pervading God. Do Thou accomplish my salvation.
O God, apply me to the work of performing the service of the great True Guru. Pause.
The trader, who takes horses and sets out to trade in them.
He earns wealth, entertains the hopes and increase his love of wealth.
Similarly God's slave utters God's name and by uttering the Name obtains peace.
The shop-keeper amasses poison and sitting in the shop, transacts business.
His love is false, his ostentation is false and with falsehood he is attached.
Similarly slave of God hoards Divine wealth and takes with him God, as his viaticum.
This love of riches and family and duality as a noose.
Under guru's instruction that person is delivered who becomes the serf of God's serfs.
Servant Nanak has dwelt on God's Name and through the Guru, his soul is enlightened.
Gauri Bairagan, 4th Guru.
Deluded by doubt, the mortal, ever, by day and night, is gripped by greed.
The forced labourer, does forced labour and carries the load of sins on his head.
The person, who performs service of the Guru, him God puts to the work of His own house
My Omnipresent Lord, shatter my shackles of mammon and apply me to the service of thy Home.
Ever, do I sing God's eulogies and merge into God's Name. Pause.
The mortal man, all for the sake of wealth, enters into the service of the king, the master of men.
The King, either imprisons him, or imposes fine on him, or dies himself.
Blest! blest! and fruitful is the service of the True Guru, by virtue of which I have obtained Divine peace by meditating on the Name of the Lord Master.
For the sake of money, man daily transacts business and adopts many devices to earn interest.
If profit accrues, he feels at peace then, in loss his heart breaks.
He, who, in merits, enters into partnership with the Guru, obtains happiness for ever and aye.
The more is the hunger for other pleasures and relishes, the more the hunger man feels for them, again.
He, unto whom, God himself shows mercy, sells his head of to the Guru.
With God's ambrosia, serf Nanak is sated and he shell not feel hungry again.
Gauri Bairagan, 4th Guru.
The longing for God is ever within my mind and heart, O God how shall I behold Thine sight?
He, who bears love to the lord, understands this, To my mind and heart, God is very dear.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru, who has united em with my Creator, from whom I was separated.
I am a sinner, O my Pervading lord, I have taken refuge and fallen at Thine gate, O god.
My intellect is utterly without merit. I am filthy. Sometime show Thine mercy unto me, too pause.
Great many are my misdeeds. Again and again, I have committed various sins, their count cannot be had, O God.
Thou O lord God, art accomplished and compassionate. O God when it pleases Thee Thou Thyself grantest pardon.
I am an offender saved by Guru's society. the Guru has instructed me that God's Name liberates the mortal.
what virtues of Thin can I recount O my True Guru? When the Guru speaks I am transported with wonder, then.
Can any one else save a sinner like me, as the True Guru, has saved and delivered me?
Thou, O Guru, art my father, Thou, O Guru art my mother and Thou O Guru, art my kinsman, comrade and succourer.
The condition that I was in, O my true Guru, that condition, Thou O God incarnate Guru, knowest thyself.
I was rolling about in dust and no one cared for me. Though the association of the great True Guru I, a worm, am installed on an exalted position.
Blessed! blessed is the Guru of serf Nanak by meeting whom all my troubles have come to an end.
Gauri Bairagan, Fourth Guru.
In gold and woman the man is lured and sweet to him is the love of worldly valuables.
He has attached his mind to the pleasures of houses, palaces, horses, and other relishes.
The Lord God I remember not How shall I be saved, O my God, the King?
O my Omnipresent Lord God, such are the Base actions of mine.
O my meritorious and merciful lord master, show compassion unto me, and pardon all my sins. Pause.
I possess no beauty, neither high caste nor the right way of life.
With what face dare I, without merit, speak in Thine presence, since I have not repeated thy Name!
I, a sinner, am saved by the company of the Guru. This is the beneficence of the True Guru.
The Lord gave all the mortals, souls, bodies, mouths, noses and water to use.
He gave them corn to eat clothes to wear and other pleasures to enjoy,
He, who gave him (all his) is not remembered by man. The animal (i.e. fool) thinks that he Himself has made them.
Though hast made them all, Thou pervadest them all. Thou, my Master, art the knower of the hearts.
What we can poor creatures do The entire play is Thine O Lord.
Meek Nanak, Purchased in the market is the serf of the serf of God.
Gauri Bairagan, 4th Guru.
As the mother having given birth to a son, nourishes him, and keeps him in her view.
In and out of doors she puts morsels in his mouth, and every now and then, fondles him,
so the True Guru watches over the gur-sikh, who bears love and affection to God.
My Master, we are the ignorant children of the Lord God.
Hail! hail unto the great Guru, the True Guru and the Divine teacher, who has rendered me wise by imparting God's instruction. Pause.
As the white robed flamingo circles and flies about in the sky,
But she keeps her thoughts in her young ones, left behind and within her heart ever remembers them,
So the true Guru, by infusing the love of the Lord God in the disciple of the Guru, keeps the Gur-sikh clasped to his heart.
As God preserves the tongue made of flesh and blood within the scissors of thirty or thirty two teeth.
Yet anyone may not understand that tongue or scissors have some power to do so. Everything is in the control of God.
similarly, when man calumniates the saintly person, God preserves the honour of His slave.
My brothers, let no one should deem, that any man has any power. Every one acts as the Lord causes him to act.
Old age, death, fever, frailthorn and snake, are all in the power of God, and without being ordered by God, none can touch the mortal.
Within thy mind and heart, O servant Nanak, ever, meditate on the Name of such God, who shall deliver thee, at the last moment.
Gauri Bairagan, 4th Guru.
He, by meeting whom, the mind receives joy is called the True Guru.
Mind's double-mindedness departs, and the celestial supreme status is obtained.
By what means shall I meet my beloved, True Guru.
Every moment I make obeisance unto my Guru. How shall I attain to my perfect Guru? Pause.
Showing His mercy, God has united me with my perfect True Guru.
By having rue the dust of the feet of the True Guru the desire of this serf is fulfilled.
He alone is deemed to have met the True Guru, who enshrines God's devotional service, and hears lord's meditation.
He never suffers loss, and ever earns the profit of Gods Name.
He within whose heart is Divine pleasure entertains not another's love.
Nanak, the mortal is saved by meeting the Guru, who makes me sing God's praises.
4th Guru, Gauri Purbi.
The merciful lord God showered His benediction and with my soul body and mouth, I utter God's name.
Through the Guru, I have acquired very fast and deep colour, and my body jacket is drenched with God's love.
I am the maid-servant of my Lord God.
When my mind was propitiated with God, He made the whole world an unpaid slave of mine. Pause.
Have deep deliberation, O good people brothers, and seek search and see God within your heart.
The beauty and light of the Lord God is contained among all and everywhere. god abides near and close to every one.
the Countless, omnipotent and Immeasurable Lord Master dwells close to the entire world.
The Perfect Guru, to whom I have sold my head for consideration has made the Lord master manifest unto me.
O Venerable God, within and without, I am under Thine protection. Of the great Thou art the greatest Lord.
Meeting the Exalted true Guru, the mediator, serf Nanak, night and day chants, the glories of God.
Gauri Purbi, 4th Guru.
Thou O Lord, art the life of the world, the remotest of the remote, the Master of the universe, Omnipotent, and the Destiny scribe.
Which ever way Thou incitest me, That way do I go O my Master.
O Pervading God, my Mind is imbued with Lord's love.
Associating with the society of saints, I have obtained Lord's elixir, and am absorbed in Lord God's Name. Pause.
The Lord God's Name and the Lord God are medicine for the ailing world. God and the Lord God's Name are ever True,
The sins and demerits of those who, under guru's instruction, partake of Lord's essence, are all destroyed.
They, who have such a pre-ordained writ on their forehead bathe in the Guru's tank of contentment.
The entire filth of evil -intellect of those, who are imbued with love of the Lord Name is washed off.
O God my Lord Master, Thou Thyself art all by Thyself. As great a Giver as Thou, there is no other.
Slave Nanak sustains life only by taking the Lord's Name. By God's grace alone, God is remembered.
Gauri Purbi, 4th Guru.
Show mercy unto me, O the Giver of life to the world, that my soul may remain merged with God.
the true Guru has imparted to me, an exceedingly immaculate instruction, and by uttering the Lord Master's Name, my Mind is transported.
O omnipresent Lord, my mind and body the True God, has perforated.
My God, by the instruction of the great True Guru, I am saved from the death, in whose mouth (clutches) the entire world is entangled. Pause.
They are the irreligious, foolish and false persons, who have no love with God.
They suffer an exceedingly extreme agony of birth and death, and repeatedly die and putrefy is ordure.
Thou art Kind, and the Cherisher of refugees. I beg of Thee to grant me the gift of Thy love, O God.
Make me the slave of the Lord's slave, that my soul may embrace extreme affection and take to dancing.
Himself the Lord Master is the great Banker. I am a retail dealer of Him.
My soul, Body and life are all capital of Thine. thou O True Lord, art the Banker of Servant Nanak.
Gauri Purbi, 4th Guru.
Thou art Merciful and the Destroyer of the calamities. Give ear and hear a supplication of mine.
Unite me with the True Guru, my very Life, Through whom thou art known, O Lord God.
O Pervading God, I acknowledge the True Guru as the Exalted Lord Himself.
I am silly, stupid and of impure understanding. By means of Gurbani of the great True Guru I have known Thee, O God. Pause.
As many pleasures, and other relishes which I have seen, all of them, without exception, I have found thoroughly insipid.
By meeting the Satguru, I have tasted the immortalising Nectar of God's Name, which is sweet like the juice of sugarcane.
Who have not met the great True Guru, they are the foolish, and insane mammon-worshippers.
They are pre-ordained to be bereft of Good deeds. By beholding the lamp of worldly love, they are burnt like a moth.
they, whom Thou, O Lord Master, mercifully unitest with the Guru, apply themselves to Thy service.
Serf Nanak is renowned by repeating the Name of Lord god and by the Guru's instruction his soul is absorbed in the Name.
Gauri Purbi, 4th Guru.
My soul, that Lord God is ever with thee. Tell me where can thou run away from God?
The True Lord God Himself grants pardon. If God Himself delivers the man, he stands delivered,
O my soul, heartily repeat and remember the Lord God's Name.
Run and take to the sanctuary of the True Guru, O My mind. Thou shall be saved by following the great Satguru. Pause.
My soul, serve that Lord, the Giver of all the comforts, by performing whose service thou shall abide in thy own home.
Through the Guru, go and attain to thy home, and rub and apply the sandal of God's praises to thyself.
O my soul, God's, God's, God's God's only God's praises are sublime. Earn the profit of singing God's praises and be happy in thy mind
If the Lord God Himself mercifully grants, then alone man partakes of the immortalising God's elixir.
O my soul, who are without God's Name, and are attached with another, those materialistic persons, are strangulated by death's myrmidon.
Such materialists, who have forgotten the Lord's Name, are thieves. My soul draw not near them.
My soul, serve the incomprehensible and immaculate Man-lion by serving whom the account is discharged.
The Lord God has made slave Nanak perfect, and his weight is not, few, short even by a fraction of a particle.
Gauri Purbi, 4th Guru.
My very life is in Thy power, O Lord. My soul and body are all Thine.
Show mercy, and cause me to see Thine sight, O God within my soul and body, is the great yearning.
My Master, within my mind and body is the desire to meet God.
When the great and merciful Guru, showed even an iota of compassion, My Lord God came and met me. Pause.
Whatever is in my mind and heart, O Lord God that condition of mind Thou Knowest.
Night and day I repeat Thy Name and obtain peace. I ever, live in Thine expectation, O God.
The great beneficent True Guru showed me the way, and my Lord God came and revealed Himself unto me.
Night and day celestial bliss rains. I have become very fortunate and all the desires of God's slave are fulfilled.
O my God, the Lord of the world and the Master of the Universe, everybody is under Thine sway.
Servant Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary, O God, save the honour of Thine sanctuary, O God, save the honour of Thine serf.
Gauri Purbi 4th Guru.
This mind of many whims rests not for a moment. It wanders about aimlessly in all the ten directions.
Through the greatest good luck, I have obtained the Perfect Guru. who has given me God's Name, by which the mind has become tranquil.
My pervading God, I am said to be the slave of the True Guru. Pause.
On my brow the brand of being guru's slave is branded. A greatly accumulated debt, I owe unto the Guru.
he has done me much beneficence and benevolence, and has ferried me across the formidable and terrible ocean.
They who have not God's love in their heart, hatch many false plots.
As the paper is dissolved in water, so is an apostate wasted away in pride.
I know nothing of past, nor do I know anything regarding future. As god keeps me so do I stand.
I am filled with shortcoming and mistakes. O my Guru, take pity on me. Serf Nanak is known as a dog of Thine.
Gauri Purbi, 4th Guru.
with lust and wrath, the body village is full to the brim. By meeting the saint Guru I have broken both into pieces.
By virtue of the pre-ordained writ I have obtained the Guru and entered the realm of Lord's Love.
Make obeisance with joined hands unto the Saint Guru.
Make a prostrate salutation. This is a great virtue indeed. Pause.
The mammon worshipper knows not the relish of God's elixir; within him is the thorn, of pride.
The more he walks (away from God), the more it pricks, and more the pain he suffers, and he bears on his head the mace of Death's myrmidon.
God's men are absorbed in Lord God's Name and they have broken away the pangs and the fear of birth and death.
They have obtained the imperishable Supreme Lord God, and great honour is theirs in the various regions and universes.
I am poor and humble, and I am Thine, O Lord God. Save me, save me, O thou greatest of great.
The Name is slave Nanak's sustenance and support, and by god's Name I enjoy peace.
Gauri Purbi, 4th Guru.
In this body castle is the Lord God, the King. But the shameless fellow obtains not His relish.
When God, compassionate to the poor, showed mercy, I tasted and saw this relish, through the Divine Guru 's word.
My Master, by enshrining affection for the Guru, singing the praises of God has become sweet unto me. Pause.
God is inaccessible, incomprehensible, and transcendent. By attachment with Satguru, the intercessor, He is met.
They, to whose heart Guru's word is pleasing, to them the viand of God, s Name is served.
The heart of the mind-ward is very tyrannical. His interior is pitch dark.
If we feed a serpent upon much milk, on investigation, only poison shall come out of it.
My Lord Master, unite me with the Guru-saint, that, with my mouth, I may grind and eat, (lovingly sing) Gurbani as joy 's spell to destroy serpent 's venom.
Servant Nanak, is Guru 's serf and slave. By associating with the saints society the bitter becomes sweet.
Gauri Purbi, 4th Guru.
For the sake of the Lord Master, I have sold off my body to the Perfect Guru.
The beneficent True Guru has implanted God 's Name within me. On my face and forehead, very auspicious destiny is recorded.
By Guru 's gospel, man comes to embrace affection for the Lord God. Pause.
In every heart the sovereign Pervading Lord is contained. Through the Guru 's word and the Guru love for Him in contracted.
Cutting my mind and body into pieces, I offer them to my Guru. By Guru 's word, my doubt and dread depart.
When the Guru comes and kindles the lamp of the great Divine-Knowledge in darkness mortal 's attention is fixed on God.
The darkness of ignorance altogether eliminated, the mind is awakened, and finds the commodity within its home.
Those who are materialists perverse hunters to them the Death 's courier begins to stalk.
They have not sold their head to the True Guru. Those unfortunate ones continue coming and going.
Listen Thou to my supplication O Lord Master. I ask for the sanctuary of the Lord God.
Slave Nanak 's respect and honour is the Guru. He has sold off his head to the True Guru.
Gauri Purbi, 4th Guru.
I am proud, and haughty is my darkened intellect. By meeting the Guru, I have affected my self-conceit.
The ailment of ego is gone, and I have procured peace. Blessed blessed is Guru-God, the King.
Through Guru 's hymns, I have obtained the Pervading Lord God. Pause.
Within my mind is the love of the Sovereign Lord. The Guru has shown me the path and way to Him.
My soul and body are all at the disposal of the True Guru, who has caused me, the separated one, to embrace God.
Within me is the love to see the Lord. The Guru caused me to see Him close to (in) my mind.
Within my mind is peace and pleasure, I, myself am a sell off to the Guru,
I have perpetrated many wicked deeds and sins. Becoming a villainous thief I have thieved.
Nanak, now has sought God 's shelter. By Thine pleasure, O God, preserve my honour.
Gauri Purbi 4th Guru.
By Guru's gospel, resounds the unstruck-music. By Guru 's gospel, the mind sings the Lord 's praises.
By very good luck, I had the Guru 's vision. Hail; hail unto the Guru, who has made bear love to God.
The pious person enshrines affection for God. Pause.
My Master, the True Guru is perfect. My soul performs Guru 's service.
I rub, shampoo and wash the feet of the Guru who reads out to me the gospel of the Lord God.
Within my mind is Guru 's instruction and the Lord, the Home of elixir. My tongue sings God 's praises.
Immersed in love, my mind is satiated with God 's Nectar and afterwards it feels not hunger again.
Though one may make varied and many efforts, yet without Lord 's mercy, he receives not the Name.
Unto slave Nanak, God has shown mercy and by Guru 's instruction and advice, he has enshrined God 's Name in his mind.
Rag Gauri Majh 4th Guru.
By Guru 's grace, O my soul, do thou the deed of repeating God 's Name.
My soul, make that intellect thy mother, which gives thee the advice to keep the Lord 's Name in thy mouth.
Make contentment thy father and the Guru thy unborn Lord.
O man of good fortune, unite with the Pervading Lord.
I have met Guru - God, the yogi and revel in his joy.
The Guru is imbued with God 's love and is ever immaculate,
By the greatest good fortune, I have met the Accomplished and Omniscient Lord.
My soul and body are saturated with God 's love.
Come saints, let us meet together and repeat the Lord 's Name.
In the society of the righteous, let us ever, earn the profit of Master 's Name.
By performing the service of the pious person, let us put Nectar in our mouth.
One meets the Saint Guru, if such destiny is pre-ordained by the Primal Lord.
In the mouth of Sawan, the world is over-cast with the cloud of the Name - Nectar.
By tasting the Name - Nectar, my mind 's pea - cock has begun to chirp
The Godly Nectar rains and God the King is met,
Serf Nanak is imbued with the Lord 's love.
Gauri Majh 4th Guru.
Come fellow - maid, let us make virtues our charms.
Meeting the pious person, let us enjoy the peace and pleasure of Lord 's love.
The lamp of the Guru - given Divine - Knowledge, ever, remains burning within my mind.
Being mightily pleased and moved with pity the Master has met me.
Within my mind and body love of the darling God is enshrined.
Satguru, the intercessor, has united me with my Friend.
I tender my mind to the Guru -saint, who causes me to meet my Master.
Unto God I am ever a sacrifice.
Dwell my Darling; dwell O Lord of Universe, O God, show mercy and do dwell witting my mind.
O my Master, I have obtained my heart desired boons and am transported by beholding the Perfect Guru.
The happy, brides receive God 's Name, O my Lord, and in supreme bliss, night and day, remain happy in their mind.
Through great good luck, God is obtained, O my Lord and by ever, earning profit man remains laughing with joy.
God Himself creates, God Himself beholds and God Himself assigns work to the beings.
Some partake of Lord 's bounties, which suffer no deficiency and some receive but a handful of corn.
Some sit on throne as kings and are, ever, happy and some Thou causest to beg for aims.
My Master of the world, everywhere thy order alone prevails. Servant Nanak meditates on Thy Name.
Gauri Majh 4th Guru.
From within, my mind, from within my mind, O my Master, from within my mind, I am imbued with God 's love.
Beloved God is with me, but He cannot be seen, O my Lord. The Perfect Guru, has shown me the Invisible One.
Lord God 's Name is revealed unto me, O my Master and all poverty and pain have departed.
I have obtained the exalted status, O my Lord God. Through the greatest good - fortune, I am absorbed in God 's Name.
With his eyes, my Beloved, with his eyes my Master has any one seen with his eyes my Lord God.
My soul and body are greatly sad in separation, O my world Lord. Without God (the Spouse) the bride is withering away.
On meeting the saintly persons O my God I have found my Lord Master, the Friends and Comrade.
God the Life of the world has come and met me O my master and my night now passes in peace.
O saints unite me with my Lord God, the Friend. My soul and body hunger for Him.
I cannot live without seeing my Beloved. Within my mind is the pang of separation from God.
The sovereign Lord is my Darling Friend. The Guru has caused me to meet Him and my soul is regenerated.
The aspirations of my mind and body are fulfilled, O my World Master. My soul is congratulated on meeting God.
A sacrifice, my World - Lord, a sacrifice, my Beloved, I am ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
In my mind and body is the love of my Beloved Spouse. O my Lord, preserve my capital, O God.
O my Lord, unite me with Satguru, the counsel, who through his guidance, shall cause me to meet God.
Through Thine mercy, O my World - Lord. I have obtained God 's Name. Slave Nanak has entered Thy sanctuary.
Gauri Majh 4th Guru.
Sportive, my Master, sportive my Beloved, sportive is my Lord God.
God of himself creates Krishna, O my World -Lord, and God himself becomes milkmaid, the seeker.
God of himself enjoys every heart, O my Lord, and He himself is the Relisher and Enjoyer.
The Lord is wise and infallible. He himself is the true Guru, in union with him, O my World-Lord.
O My Lord God of himself creates the world and Himself plays in many a way.
O My Lord! Some He causes to enjoy dainties and some becoming poorest of the poor wander about all-naked,
O my Lord! God himself makes the world and gives alms to all, who beg of Him.
The saints have the support of the Name, O my Lord. They ask for, only, the exalted Divine gospel of Lord God.
God, of himself makes the saints perform His worship, O my Lord, and fulfills the mind's desires of His saints.
The Lord himself is contained in water and land, O my master. He is all-pervading and is not far-off.
Within and without the Lord Himself is, O my Master. God of Himself is completely occupying all the places.
His Pervading Soul, the Lord has diffused throughout, O my Master. God Himself is beholding all, near at hand.
O God, my Lord, within the creatures is the music of the air. As God Himself plays the tune so dose it resound.
O God, my Lord, within us is the Name treasure. By Guru's instruction the Lord God becomes manifest.
O my Lord! God Himself causes man to enter His sanctuary and saves the honour of the devoted persons.
O my Master! Through very good fortune, man meets society of saints and O slave Nanak, with God's Name his affairs are adjusted.
Gauri Majh 4th Guru.
For God's Name and God, I have developed love.
When I meet my Lord God, the Friend, I obtain peace.
By beholding Lord Master, I sustain life, O my mother.
God's Name is my friend and brother.
O venerable Saints, sing the praises of my Lord God.
O thee very fortunate ones, through the Guru meditate on God's Name.
Lord God's Name, and God, are my life and soul.
By repeating the Name, I shall not, afterwards again, cross the terrible ocean.
How shall I see the Lord Master; the yearning of my soul and body?
Unite me with God, O honourable saints, my soul bears Him love,
By the Guru's gospel, God, the Beloved King is obtained.
O very fortunate mortal, do thou repeat the Name of the Lord.
Within my mind and body is the great longing for the Lord Master.
O Saints, unite me with the Lord Master, who is very near to me.
By the True Guru's instruction, God's Name is, ever, manifest to me.
The desire of slave Nanak's heart is fulfilled.
Gauri Majh 4th Guru.
If I receive my favourite Name, then alone can I live.
In the mind is God's elixir. By Guru's gospel I shall quaff it.
My soul is tinged with God's love. God's Nectar, do I, ever drink.
The Lord I have obtained within my mind, so do I live.
The arrow of God's love has pierced my soul and body.
The Lord Master is my Wise, and beloved Intimate.
The Guru saint has united me with the Omniscient, and All-seeing Lord.
I am devoted unto the Name of God.
I inquire about the Lord Master, my intimate God, the friend.
O honourable saints, tell me about God. I am on the look-out of the Lord.
The merciful True Guru has shown me the way, and I have obtained God.
Through the Name of God, I am absorbed in God Himself.
I am affected with the pain of separation from the love of God.
The Guru has fulfilled my desire, and in my mouth I have oozed the Name Nectar.
My God incarnate Guru be merciful that I may contemplate over God's Name.
Serf Nanak, has obtained God's elixir.
5th Guru Rag Gauri Guareri Chaupade.
There is but one God. By the favour of the True Guru He is obtained.
In what way is spiritual happiness obtained, O my brother?
How can the Omnipresent Lord God, the Helper be found? Pause.
There is no happiness in calling the entire wealth one's own,
and living in home, or in the beautifully roofed lofty mansions.
In false avarice, man has wasted his human life.
He is pleased to see the sight of his elephants, horses,
and assemblage of armies, mace-bearers and servants.
These are like halter and noose of vanity round his neck.
To have sway over all the ten directions,
to reveal in pleasures, and to enjoy many women,
it is like a beggar becoming a king in a dream.
One comfort, the True Guru has pointed out to me.
What so ever God does, that is pleasing to God's devoted slave.
By effacing his pride, slave Nanak is absorbed in the Lord.
In this way, celestial bliss is procured O my brother.
Thus is found Lord God, the Succour. Pause Second.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
Why doubt? Regarding what should the doubt be?
When that Lord is contained in the water, dry land, the earth and sky.
The Guru-wards are saved and the mind-wards lose their honour.
Whom the Merciful Omnipresent Lord Himself protects,
no one else can equal him. Pause.
Among all the One Infinite Lord is pervading.
So be thou free from care and sleep comfortably.
He knows everything that happens.
The perverse are dyeing of thirst for worldliness.
They wander through many births. Their destiny is so preordained.
As they sow, so shall they eat.
By holding the sight of the Lord, my mind has blossomed.
Everywhere I see, now the light of the Pervading God.
Of slave Nanak God has fulfilled the aspiration.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
For several births thou became a worm and a moth.
In several birth thou were an elephant, a fish and a deer.
In several births thou became a bird and a snake.
In several births thou were yoked as a horse and an ox.
Meet the Lord of the universe. This is the time to meet.
After a long time this human body is fashioned. Pause.
In many births thou wert created in rocks and mountains.
In many births thou wert aborted from the womb.
In several births thou wert produced as a branch (vegetation).
Within eighty-four lacs of existences thou wert made to wander.
By virtue of the society of saints thou hast obtained this human birth.
Perform the Lord 's service, and repeat God 's Name under the Guru 's guidance
Renounce pride, falsehood and insolence.
Being dead in life, thou shalt become acceptable in the Lord 's court,
Whatever has been, or shall be, that is form thee.
No one else is capable of doing that.
If Thou unite, then alone one meets Thee.
Says Nanak O man sing thou the praises of the Lord God.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
In the fields of actions do thou sow the Name.
Thy affair shall be accomplished.
Thou shalt obtain the fruit, and thy fear of death shall be dispelled.
Ever, sing the excellences and praises of the Lord God.
The Lord God 's Name, do thou clasp to thy heart and mind,
and quickly have thine affairs set aright. Pause.
Be ever ready to perform the service of Thy Lord.
Then, shalt thou obtain honour at His court.
Abandon all thine devices and clevernesses.
Cling thou to the feet of holy men.
He, in whose hand all the beings are,
is never separated from them, and lives with them all.
Abandon contrivances and grasp His protection.
In a moment, thou shalt obtain deliverance.
Know Him as ever, near thee.
Accept Lord 's command as true.
Under Guru 's instruction, efface thy ownself.
Ever repeat, O Nanak, the Name of Lord God.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
The Guru 's word is ever eternal.
By the Guru's word, Death 's noose is cut.
The Guru's word remains with the soul.
Through the Guru's word, man gets immersed in the Lord 's love.
Whatever the Guru gives that is of use to soul.
Accept as true all that the Saint-Guru does. Pause.
The Guru 's word is infallible, and immutable.
By the Guru's word, doubts and variances are dispelled.
The Guru 's word (stays with the man, and) never goes anywhere.
Through the Guru 's word, he sings the praises of God.
The Guru 's word remains with the soul.
The Guru's word is the Master of the Masterless.
By the Guru's word man falls not in hell.
By the Guru's word, moral 's tongue relishes God 's elixir.
The Guru 's word is manifest in the world.
Through the Guru 's word, man suffers nor defeat.
Unto whom the Lord Himself becomes merciful,
Nanak, the True Guru, is for ever Kind to him.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
Who has made thee a jewel out of dust.
Who has adopted means to preserve thee in the womb
Who has given thee renown and greatness.
Meditate on that Lord through out the eight watches.
O All pervading Lord, may I obtain the dust of the feet of saintly persons.
By meeting the Guru, I ponder over my Lord. Pause.
Who has made me from a fool in to a preacher.
From a senseless man, who has made me into a sensible one.
By whose grace I have found the nine treasures.
That Lord my mind forgets not.
Who has given place to the placeless,
and who has given honour to the unhonoured.
Who has fulfilled all the desires.
Day and night, O man, remember Him with every breath and morsel.
By whose grace the fetters of the mammon are cut off.
By whose favour, the sour poison has become Nectar.
Says Nanak, by his mortal nothing can be done.
I praise the Preserver Lord.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
In His sanctuary there is no fear and sorrow.
Without Him, nothing can be done.
I have shed cleverness, power and evil intellect.
He is the Preserver of the honour, of His serf.
Meditate thou, O my soul, on the Pervading God Lord with love.
Within home, and without, He is, ever, with thee. Pause.
His support, keep thou in thy mind.
Quaff thou, the immortalising Nectar of the Guru 's Word.
Says, of what avail are other efforts?
Showing His mercy, the Lord Himself protects man 's honour.
What is man? says, what power he has?
False is all the tumult of riches.
Doer and Prompter of deeds is the Lord.
He is the Knower of all the hearts.
Of all the comforts, this is the true comfort.
Keep Guru 's instruction in thy mind.
He who bears love to the Name of the Pervading Lord.
is blessed, and highly fortunate, says Nanak.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
By hearing God 's discourse, I have shed my filth.
I have become very pure, and I walk in peace.
By great good fortune, I have obtained the society of saints,
and have fallen in love with the Supreme Lord.
By meditating on Lord God 's Name, I the servant, am saved.
The Guru has conducted me across, the sea of fire. Pause.
By singing the praises of the Lord, my mind has been tranquilised,
and sins of many births are washed off.
All the treasures I have seen within my mind.
Why should I now, go searching for them, without?
When, my Master, became merciful,
His slave 's service, then got accomplished.
He has cut off my fetters and made me His serf.
I remember, remember and remember the Lord, The Treasure of excellences.
He, alone is in the mind, and he alone within all the places.
The Perfect Master is fully filling all the sites.
The Perfect Guru has dispelled all my doubts.
By remembering God, Nanak has obtained peace.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
They who have previously died, are forgotten.
They, who survive, stand with their loins girded.
They engage in the occupations in which they were involved.
As against them they cling to mammon with twice the force.
Man thinks not of that time of death.
He clings to that, which is to pass away. Pause.
The body of the fool is bound by desires.
In lust, wrath, and worldly love, he is involved.
Over, his head stands the Righteous Judge.
Deeming it as sweet, he eats poison.
The fool says "I shall bind my enemy and will lay him prostrate.
Who can dare set his foot upon my land?"
I am learned, I am clever, and wise.
The ignorant knows not His creator.
His state and worth God Himself knows.
What can anyone say? How can one say and describe Him?
To whatever God attaches the mortal, to that he gets attached.
Everyone asks for his own advantage.
Everything is Thine. Thou art the Creator.
Thou hast no end, this and that limit.
Bestow this boon on Thy slave Nanak,
that he may never forget Thy Name.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
Through many endeavours, release is not secured.
The more the cleverness the more is the weight of sins.
By Performing God 's service with pure affection,
one goes to Lord 's court, with honour.
O my soul, hold fast the prop of God 's Name.
Even the hot puff of wind shall not touch thee. Pause.
As the ship is helpful in the terrible ocean,
as a lamp enlightens the darkness,
as the heat of fire removes the pain of cold,
so through Name's meditation the soul obtains peace.
Thy mind 's thirst shall be quenched.
And all the desires shall be fulfilled.
Thy mind shall waver not.
If O friend, through Guru's grace thou meditate on the ambrosial Name.
That man alone receives the Name 's medicine,
whom the Lord Himself mercifully, cause it to be given.
He in whose heart abides the Name of Lord God,
his pain and sorrow are eliminated, O Nanak.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
With vast wealth man 's mind is not satiated.
By beholding several beauties man is not appeased,
Deeming them his own, he is entangled with his sons, and wife.
That wealth shall perish and those (relatives) shall become heaps of ashes.
Without God's meditation, I see the mortals lamenting.
Accursed are the bodies and accursed the wealth of those who are imbued with mammon. Pause.
As a bag of money is put on the head of a forced labourer,
that money reaches the Master 's house and he just suffers pain.
As when a man sits as a King in a dream,
but when he opens his eyes, then he finds that this affair is all in vain.
As is the watchman watches over the field of another,
the farm belongs to the owner, and the watchman gets up and departs when his work is over,
For that field the watchman toils hard,
but there from nothing comes to his hand.
Similarly, His is the dream to whom belongs the world empire.
He, who given wealth, has infused craving for it.
The Lord Himself annihilates and Himself sets aright the mortal.
Before the Lord, Nanak makes the supplication.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
The mammon of many forms, I have seen in many ways.
With my pen, I have written ingenious things on paper
I have seen what it is to be a Chief, a king and a Lord.
Through them the mind is not sated.
Show me that comfort, O saints,
by which desires may be quenched and the soul be satiated. Pause.
I may have wind-fast horses and elephants to ride on.
Otto of Sandal couches, beautiful ladies,
and actors singing for me at dreams in the arena,
in them the mind attain not contentment.
The throne, royal court, ornaments, rugs,
all the fruits, the beautiful gardens,
hobby of chase and the kingly entertainments,
the heart becomes not happy by such deceptive efforts.
Of their kindness, the saints have told me of the True One,
and I have obtained all this comfort and joy.
In the Society of Saints sing the praises of God.
Says Nanak, through the greatest good fortunes the Lord is found
He, who possesses the wealth of God's Name is happy.
By Lord 's grace, the Society of Saints is received. Pause second.
Gauri Guareri. 5th Guru.
The mortal deems that the body is his own.
Again and again he clings to that
Children, Wife, and household are entanglements.
The mortal cannot become the slave of the Lord.
What is that way by which the praises of the omnipresent Lord may be sung?
What is that intellect, by which this, mortal, may swim across O. mother? Pause.
What is for his Good that he deems evil.
If anyone tells him the truth, he regards that as poison.
He known not what is victory, and what is defeat?
This is the way of life of the infidel in this world.
What is deadly poison, that the demented man drinks.
The Nectar Name, he deems as bitter.
The Society of Saints, he does not meet.
In the eighty four lacs of existences he wanders through.
In the one net of mammon the birds are caught.
Immersed in worldly love, they revel there in various ways.
Says Nanak, unto who, the Lord has become Merciful,
the perfect Guru has cut the noose of him.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
By Thine grace, O Lord the way is found.
By Lord's mercy the Name is meditated upon.
By Lord's mercy the mortal is released from bonds.
By Thy grace egotism is dispelled.
If Thou so appointest me, then, do I take to Thine service.
Of my ownself, I cannot do anything, O my Luminous Lord. Pause.
If it pleases Thee, I sing, Thy Gurbani, then.
If it pleases Thee, I tell the truth, then.
If it pleases Thee, True Guru's grace is upon me, then.
All the peace is in Thy grace, O my Lord.
Whatever pleases Thee, that is the pure deed.
That which pleases Thee, that is he true faith.
The treasure of all the excellences is with Thee.
Thou art the Lord. Thy servant makes supplication before Thee.
The soul and body are reached immaculate through God's love.
All the comforts are obtained in the Society of the Saints.
May my soul remain imbued with Thy Name.
Nanak deems this as the Supreme bliss.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
All other relishes, which thou tasted, O my tongue,
with them thy thirst departs not, even for an instant.
If thou tasted the sweetness of God's elixir,
thou shalt be taken by surprise on tasting it.
O my dear tongue drink thou the Name Nectar.
Steeped in this savour thou shalt be satiated. Pause.
O tongue, sing thou the praises of the Lord.
Every moment, meditate thou on Lord Master's Name.
Hear not another thing but the Name, and go not anywhere but the Master.
Saints congregation is attained to by the greatest good luck.
O tongue repeat thou throughout the eight watches,
the Name of the Supreme Lord, the unfathomable Master.
Here and hereafter, thou shalt ever, be happy.
By chanting God's glories thou shalt become invaluable, O tongue.
For thee the vegetation shall grow green and the plants shall bear flowers and fruits, if,
steeped in this elixir, thou shalt never leave it, O tongue.
No other sweets and saltish savours equal it.
Says Nanak the Guru has become my Succour.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
The mine is the mansion and body the fence constructed round it.
Within it is the unrivalled commodity.
In it, it is heard, the great Merchant abides.
Who is that dealer who commands credit there?
Rare is the trader, who deals in the Name-jewel.
He partakes if the Nectar as his food. Pause.
He dedicates his soul and body to the Lord and serves Him.
What is the way by which the Lord is pleased?
Shedding my "I and Thou", I fall at His feet.
Who is the man, who may get the bargain settled?
By what device can I reach the Merchant's mansion?
What is the method, by which, He may call me in?
Thou art the great Merchant, who has million of dealers.
Who is the benefactor, who may take my hand, and cause me to reach His Mansion?
Seeking and searching I have found my own home.
The True Lord has shown me the invaluable gem.
When the Merchant shows mercy be blends the mortal with Himself.
Says Nanak, this is accomplished, when the mortal puts faith in the Guru.
Gauri 5th Guru Guareri.
Night and day the Saints abide in the love of One God.
The Lord they deem, to be, ever, with them.
Lord's Name they make their way of life.
They are sated and satiated by God's sight.
Imbued with God their soul and body are reverdured.
They enter the sanctuary of the perfect Guru. Pause.
Lord's lotus feet are the support of their soul.
They behold but One God, and become the obeyers of His order.
Their is but one trade, and one occupation.
Without the Formless Lord they know none else.
They are free both from weal and woe.
They know the way of, ever remaining detached from the world and attached with God.
They are seen among all and yet are removed from all.
On the Supreme Lord, they fix their attention.
What glories of the Saints can I describe?
Unfathomable is their knowledge and I know not their worth.
O Great God show mercy unto me.
Grant Nanak the dust of the Saints feet.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
Thou art my Comrade and thou my Friend.
Thou art my Beloved and with Thee I bear love.
Thou art my Honour and Thou art my Ornament.
Without Thee, I cannot live, even, for a moment.
Thou art my Beloved, and Thou my very Life.
Thou art my Lord, and Thou my chief. Pause.
As Thou keepest me, so do I live.
Whatever Thou sayest, that I do.
Wherever I see, there I find Thee dwelling.
My Fearless Lord, with my tongue, I repeat Thy Name.
Thou art my nine Treasures and Thou my storehouse.
With Thine affection I am imbued. Thou art my mind's support.
Thou art my glory and with Thee I am blended.
Thou art my Shelter, and thou art my prop.
Within my mind body I meditate upon Thee.
Thy secret, I have obtained form the Guru.
Through the True Guru I have firmly grasped the only one Lord.
Slave Nanak has the support of God the Lord Master.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
Mammon is spread through the ostentations of weal and woe.
It effects heaven, hell, and incarnations.
It is seen affecting the rich, the poor, and the glorious.
This basic melody operates through covetousness.
The mammon effects in many ways.
But the saints under Thy Protection, O Lord pass their life unaffected by it. Pause.
It clings to him who is intoxicated with intellectual pride.
It clings to him who is imbued with the love of his sons and wife.
It clings to him who is engrossed in elephants, horses and raiments.
It clings to the person who is intoxicated with the wine of beauty and youth.
It clings to the landlords, the paupers and revelers.
It cling to the hearer of songs and music at assemblies.
It is contained in couches, palaces and decorations.
It is contained in the five evil passions. which are blinding.
It is contained in him, who goes about his business, entangled in ego.
She impinges upon us in house hold, and impinges in renunciation as well.
It impinges upon us through our character, occupation and caste.
It clings to everything save those who are imbued with God's love.
The Saints' fetters God, the King has cut off.
How can mammon cling to them.
Says Nanak, who has obtained the dust of the Saints feet.,
the mammon does not draw near him.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
The eyes are asleep by casting evil glance towards other 's beauty.
The ears are asleep on hearing tales of slander.
The tongue is asleep in the desire for the relish sweets.
The mind is asleep in the poisonous intoxication of wealth.
Rare is the person, who remains awake in this house.
His commodity he receives in entirety. Pause.
All the maid companions (senses) are intoxicated with their own relishes.
They know not how to guard their own house.
The five evil passions are the plunderers and highway robbers.
The cheats fall upon the unguarded town.
From them Father and mother cannot save.
From them friend and brother cannot protect.
Through wealth and cleverness they are not restrained.
By the society of Saints, those villains come under control.
Have mercy on me, O Lord, the Earth Sustainer.
For me the dust of Saints feet is all treasure.
In the society of the True Guru the capital - stock remains in fact.
Nanak is awake in the love of the Supreme Lord.
He alone is awake unto whom the Lord is Merciful.
This commodity, wealth, and property of his then remain whole. Pause second.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
In whose power are the lords and emperors.
In whose power is the whole world.
By whose doing, everything is done,
besides Him, there is nothing.
Address thy supplication to thy True Guru,
Thine affairs, he will all arrange. Pause.
His court is the most exalted of all,
of all His Saints, His Name is the support.
The Perfect Master is pervading everywhere.
His glory is manifest in every heart.
By remembering whom the abode of sorrow is abolished.
By remembering whom Death's courier molests thee not.
By remembering whom, what is dry becomes green.
By remembering whom, the sinking stones float.
Unto the society of Saints, I ever, make an obeisance.
Lord Master's Name is the support of the life of his slaves.
Says Nanak, the Lord has listened to my supplication.
Through Saints grace, I have obtained an abode in Lord 's Name.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
By True Guru's sight, the fire (of desire) is quenched.
By meeting the True Guru ego is effaced.
In the company of the True Guru, the mind wavers not.
Through the Guru, the mortal utters the ambrosial Gurbani.
If man be imbued in the True Name, he sees the True One pervading the whole world.
Knowing the Lord, through the Guru, I have been cooled and tranquilized. Pause.
By Saints favour, man repeats God's Name.
By Saints' favour one signs God's praises.
By saints' favour all the pains are effaced.
By Saints' grace, mortal is released from bondage.
By means of Saints Kindness, attachment and doubts are removed.
The entire faith is to have a bath in the dust of Saintly Guru 's feet.
When the Saint is merciful, compassionate becomes the Master of the Universe.
This life of mine, abides in the Saints.
If I meditate on the merciful Master, the Treasure of compassion,
then alone, I secure a seat in Saints society.
Unto me, meritless, O Nanak the Lord has shown His mercy.
In the guild of the righteous, Nanak has taken Lord 's Name.
Gauri Guareri 4th Guru.
In the Saints, congregation I meditate on the Auspicious Master.
The Guru has given me the spell of the Name alone.
Shedding my ego, I have become uninominal.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, I worship Guru 's Feet.
Now my evil and alien intellect is eliminated,
when I have heard God 's praises, with mine ears. Pause.
Who is the treasure of poise peace and pleasure,
and the preserver, shall ultimately save me.
Pain pang dread and doubt of mine are effaced.
From birth and death, He has mercifully saved me.
The Lord Himself beholds speaks and hear everything.
O my soul remember Him who is ever with Thee,
By Saints favour light has dawned,
The One Lord, the Treasure of excellences is fully pervading everywhere.
Pure are those recite, pure are those who listen,
and sing for ever the praise of the world-Lord.
Says Nanak unto who, Thou becomest kind,
the entire service of that man becomes accomplished.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
One who shatters the shackles and causes man to utter the God's Name.
Through who, the mind is fixed up in the True Lord's contemplation,
and anguish is effaced and man lives in peace;
such is said to be the munificent True Guru.
He alone is the giver of peace who causes man to repeat the Name of God,
And mercifully unites with Him. Pause.
He unto who, the Lord is kind him He unites with Himself.
All the treasures he receives from the Guru.
By shedding one's ego, his coming and going come to and end.
In the Society of Saints, the Supreme Lord is recognised.
Unto His serf, the Lord has become Merciful.
One Lord, the world cherisher is the support of His serf.
He bears love to One God and One God's affection is in his mind.
God's Name is all the treasure of His servant.
He, who bears love with the lofty Lord,
has pure deeds and the true way of life.
The Perfect Guru has dispelled the darkness.
The Lord of Nanak is Illimitable and Infinite.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
The person within whose mind the Lord dwells, swims across (the world -ocean).
He, who has good fortune receives the Lord,
The pain, disease and fear do not even slightly affect him,
who in his mind, remembers the ambrosial Name of God.
Mediate Thou, O man on the Supreme Lord, the Exalted Master.
From the perfect Guru, this understanding is obtained. Pause.
The Doer and Prompter is the Kind Lord.
He nourishes all men and other sentient beings.
The Lord is ever Inaccessible Incomprehensible and Illimitable Meditate on Him.
O my soul under the Perfect Guru's instruction.
Serve Him, in whose service are all the treasures.
By Lord's adoration honour is obtained.
Whose service goes not in vain,
For ever sing thou the praises of everlasting God.
My Master the Knower of hearts show mercy unto me.
The invisible Lord God is the treasure of peace.
The men and other beings seek thine shelter,
O God, Nanak may acquire the greatness of Lord's Name.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
In whose hand is the life's department,
O man remember that Lord, the Master of the masterless.
By contemplating over the Lord, all the woes depart.
Through God, s Name all the fears are wiped off.
Without God, why feelest thou another's fear?
If thou forget God why deemest thou thyself to be in peace? Pause.
He who has established, many earths and skies,
with whose light the soul is illumined,
and whose benediction none can rescind,
reflect and ponder on that Lord, O man and thus be without fear.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, meditate thou on Lord's Name.
If includes baths and ablutions at many places of pilgrimage.
Seek thou the sanctuary of the Lofty Lord, O man.
Millions of Thine notorieties shall be obliterated in an instant
He is the unconcerned Perfect King.
The Lord's slave has true faith in Him.
By giving His hand the Perfect Guru protects Him.
Nanak all powerful is the Exalted Lord.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
By Guru's grace my mind is attached with God's Name.
Asleep for many births it has now awakened.
Through the Nectareal hymns of the Guru, the mind now utters Lord's praises.
The perfect Guru's sublime instruction has been revealed unto me.
By dwelling on the Lord, I have obtained all the beatitudes.
Within and without home, I have easily, acquired all peace. Pause.
I have recognised Him who created me.
By showing His mercy the Lord has blended me with Himself.
Holding me by the arm the Master has made me His own.
Lord God's discourse and Name I do ever repeat.
The magic incantations, medicine and expiation acts,
are all in Lord God's Name which is the prop of my soul and very life.
I have obtained the True Wealth of God's love.
By the society of Saints the formidable world-ocean is crossed.
O Saints sit in peace with the family of friends.
I have earned the wealth of God's Name which is beyond reckoning.
The Guru gives this wealth to him who is ordained to receive it.
Nanak, from the Guru's door none goes empty handed.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
The hands are rendered pure forthwith,
and the entanglements of mammon are destroyed,
if the praises of Pervading God are ever repeated with the tongue.
Thus shalt thou obtain peace, O my brother and friend.
With thy pen and inkpot, write thou on paper,
the Pervading God's Name and God's Nectareal Gurbani. Pause.
By this act thy sins shall be washed off.
By remembering the Pervading Lord, Death's myrmidon shall not punish thee.
The couriers of the Righteous judge shall not spy thee;
And the mammon's intoxication shall not fascinate thee, even in the least.
Thou Thyself shalt be saves and through thee shall be saves the world,
if thou repeat the Name of the only One omnipresent Lord.
Practise Name's meditation thyself and instruct others,
Instill God's Name unto thy heart.
On whose brow the receipt of this treasure is recorded,
that person ponders on the Lord.
The whole day sing the praises of the Lord God.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto him.
Rag Gauri Guareri 5th Guru. Chaupade Dupade
There is but One God. By the favour of the True Guru He is obtained.
What belongs to another, that the man deems his own.
What has to be abandoned, with that his mind is attached.
Say, how can the Lord of earth be found?
What is forbidden, with that he cherishes affection. Pause.
The false thing, that he deems as true.
The heart is not, in the least attached to what is ever True.
He goes crookedly by the left (wrong) way,
and leaving the straight way, he weaves backwards.
That Lord is the Master of both the worlds (extremities).
He, whom the Lord unites with Himself, O Nanak, becomes emancipated.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
In the dark age, husband and wife have come together through destiny.
So long as is the Lord's command till then, they enjoy pleasures.
By burning thyself the Loved Lord is not obtained.
Through wrought deeds, she arises and gets burned with her dead husband. Pause.
Imitatingly and through mind's obstinacy, she gets burnt up.
She obtains not the company of her Spouse, and is made to wander through many existences.
She, who possess goodness, and self-restraint, and submits to her Lord's order,
that women suffers not anguish at the hands of Death's Couriers.
Say Nanak, She who looks upon the Supreme Lord as her Spouse,
is the blessed chaste wife, and she becomes acceptable in God's court.
Gauri Guareri 5th Guru.
I am wealthy and fortunate, as I have obtained the True Name.
God's praises, do I sing with natural ease. Pause.
When I opened and saw the treasure of my father, and grand father,
my soul, then, became immensely pleased.
Brimful with the priceless emeralds and jewels,
the storehouse is inexhaustible, and immeasurable.
Meeting together, the brethren eat and spend.
The stores diminish not and are ever on the increase.
Says Nanak, he, who has such a scribed writ on his brow,
becomes a partner in these treasures.
Gauri 5th Guru.
I was engulfed in mortifying dread and terror, when I deemed the Lord afar.
By seeing Him fully pervading every where, my fear is removed
Unto my True Guru, I am a sacrifice.
Leaving me, he goes nowhere, and assuredly he shall ferry me across. Pause.
Calamity, disease, and sorrow afflict a man when he forgets God's Name.
Eternal joy ensures, when he sings God's praises.
Slander or praise not any one.
Discard thy self-conceit and grasp the feet of God.
Says Nanak, remember thou Guru's gospel, O man,
Thou shall obtain peace at the True court.
Gauri 5th Guru.
He whose friend and intimate is the Pervading Lord,
ask, what else is that man in need of?
He, whose love is with Lord of the Universe,
his malady, anguish and superstition run away. Pause.
He, who has enjoyed the relish of God's elixir,
he clings not to other pleasures.
He, whose word is accepted in Lord's court,
what does he care for anything else?
If man be of Him, to whom belongs everything,
then O Nanak, he attains everlasting bliss.
Gauri 5th Guru.
He who looks upon woe and weal alike,
how can anxiety cling to him?
God's Saint abides in celestial bliss.
He, ever, remains obedient to Lord God, the King. Pause.
He, within whose mind the care-free Lord comes to abide,
is never ridden by care.
He, from whose heart doubt is dispelled has not the least fear of Death.
He, from whose heart doubt is dispelled has not the least fear of Death.
He, within whose mind the Guru has infused the Name,
comes to possess all the treasures, says Nanak.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The Lord of unknowable from has abode in the heart of man.
By Guru's grace, some rare one understands it.
There are the Nectareal tanks of Lord's Sermons. He, who has access to them, takes and quaffs the Nectar. Pause.
There are the Nectareal tanks of Lord's Sermons. He, who has access to them, takes and quaffs the Nectar. Pause.
The celestial music of Guru's hymns resounds in the unique place (of the tenth gate).
With the melody thereof, the Cherisher of the Universe is fascinated.
There are diverse and numberless abodes, of peace.
There, Saints the comrades of the Supreme Lord, abide.
There is infinite joy and no sorrow and duality.
That adobe, the Guru has conferred on Nanak.
Gauri 5th Guru.
What form of Thine should I adore?
By what way of yog, may I discipline my body?
What is the virtue, by acquiring. which, I may sing Thine praises?
What speech is that, O Lofty Lord by which I may please Thee? Pause.
What is that worship of Thine that I may perform?
What device is that, by which, I may cross the terrible ocean?
What is that penance, by which I may become a penitent?
What is that Name by which the filth of pride is washed away?
The fruit of virtue, adoration Divine comprehension, meditation, and all service is obtained by him,
whom the kind True Guru kindly meets.
He alone receives merit, and He alone understands the Lord.
Whose devotion, the Giver of peace approves. Pause Second.
Gauri 5th Guru.
O man! thine is not the body on which thou takes pride.
Empire property, and wealth are not thine.
They are not thine, why clingest thou to them then?
The Name alone is thine and this thou shalt receive from the True Guru. Pause.
The sons, wife and brothers are not thine.
Thine are not the dear friends, father and mother,
Gold, Silver and rupees are not thine.
The fine horses and beauteous elephants are not of any avail to thee.
Says Nanak whom the Guru pardons, him, he unites with the Lord.
Everything belongs to him whose Lord is God, the King.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The Guru's feet are on my forehead.
Wherefore all my distresses have departed.
Unto my True Guru I am a sacrifice.
(Through whom) I have understood myself and enjoy the Supreme bliss. Pause.
The dust of Guru's feet has daubed my face,
and that has wholly removed my haughty intellect.
The Guru's hymns have become sweet unto my mind.
The Supreme Lord I have beheld, therefore.
The Guru is the giver of peace, and Guru the Creator,
The Guru is the support of Nanak's soul and his very life.
Gauri 5th Guru.
O my soul, do thou desire Him,
in whom nothing is wanting.
O my mind make that beloved God, thy friend.
Ever keep thou in thy heart the Lord who is the prop of thy life. Pause.
O My soul, do thou serve Him,
who is the Primordial Person and the limitless Luminous Lord.
O my soul, keep thy hopes on Him,
who since the very outset and the beginning of ages is the Support of the Beings.
Whose affection ever confers solace,
On meeting the Guru, Nanak sings His praises.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Whatever my friend does, that I accept.
My Friend's doing are like pleasure unto me.
Within my mind and heart is the one roost.
He, who is to do something, is a Friend of mine. Pause.
My Intimate Friend is care-free.
By Guru's grace I have came to bear Him love.
My Friend is the Searcher of hearts.
My Master is the Omnipresent Person and the Supreme Lord.
I am Thine serf and Thou art my Lord.
My honour and glory are all Thine-given, O Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
He, whose, side Thou takes, O my Omnipotent Master,
him no black mark can attach.
O Lord of Wealth, whose hope sets in Thee,
him the desires of the world cannot, in the least, touch. Pause.
Within whose heart, the Lord dwells,
on him no anxiety can befall.
O Lord, whom though givest Thy consolation,
pain does not come near him,
Says Nanak, I have attained to that Guru,
who has shown me the all Pervading Lofty Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Difficulty acquirable human-body is procured through the greatest good fortune.
They who remember not God's Name are the self-murderers.
Why don't they die, who forget the pervading God?
Without the Name of what avail id the life. Pause.
Eating drinking, playing, laughing and making ostentation.
Of what use are the decorations of the dead?
They who hear not the praises of the Supreme Bliss,
are worse than the beasts, birds and the species of creeping creatures.
Says Nanak, the Guru has implanted God's Name within me.
The Name alone is contained within my mind.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Whose is this mother and whose this father?
The kinsmen are only in name and they are all false.
What for did thou clamour, O fool?
Through destiny and Lord's fiat thou hast come in this world. Pause.
The mortal's dust return to the kindred dust.
His light to the One light and breath to the identical wind, why and for whom, then should man bewail?
Man weeps saying "He was mine, O mine".
This soul is not perishable.
Says Nanak, the Guru has opened my shutters.
I am emancipated and my ground of doubt is destroyed.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Who appear to be very great men,
them the malady of anxiety afflicts.
Is there any one great by reason of the greatness of wealth?
He is great who has devoted his love to the Pervading God. Pause
The landlord, ever, contends for his land.
He has to abandon it and depart but his desire is not extinguished.
Says Nanak, the real thing I consider is this,
that without God's meditation, there is no deliverance.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Perfect is the way, perfect the ablution,
and perfect are all the things, when His name be on the mind.
Perfect remains the honour when the Perfect-One Preserves it.
His slave looks to the protection of the Supreme Lord. Pause.
Perfect is the solace and perfect the contentment.
Perfect is the penance and perfect the communion with God, the King.
Treading on the God's way the sinners become pure.
Perfect is their glory and perfect their humanity.
The Creator ever, abides near them.
Says Nanak, my True Guru is perfect.
Gauri 5th Guru.
With the dust of Saints feet millions of sins are destroyed.
By Saints grace, release from birth and death is obtained.
The Saints sight is the perfect ablution.
By Saints favour God's Name is repeated. Pause.
In the Society of Saints one's ego is shed,
and he sees the One Lord everywhere.
By saints Supreme Pleasure the five evil passion are subdued,
and one irrigates his mind with the Nectareal Name.
Says Nanak, he whose fortune is perfect,
he touches the Saints feet.
Gauri 5th Guru.
By reflecting over God's merits the heart-lotus blooms.
By remembering God, all the fears are dispelled.
Perfect is the intellect, by virtue of which, God's praises are sung.
Through the greatest good luck the Society of Saints is obtained. Pause.
In the congregation of the righteous, the treasure of Lord's Name is gained.
In the guild of the holy, all the affairs are adjusted.
Through God's meditation one's life is approved.
By Guru's Grace, God's Name is repeated.
Says Nanak that man becomes acceptable,
within whose mind the illustrious Lord abides.
Gauri 5th Guru.
He, whose soul is imbued with the One Lord,
forgets to feel jealous of others.
Without the World Lord he sees not another.
(For him) that Creator is the Doer and Prompter of deeds. Pause.
Who heartily performs God's Service and with his mouth utters God's Name,
that man here and here-after, no where wavers.
He who possesses god's wealth, is the True Banker.
The Perfect Guru, has established his credit.
The life bestowing Lord God, the king meets him.
Says Nanak, like this he attains to the supreme status.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The Name is the support of Saints' life.
The Name is his wealth and the Name his business.
By the Name, Lord's slave procures greatness and glory.
He alone obtains them who the Lord Himself mercifully gives. Pause.
The Name, is the devotee's abode of peace.
The devotee who is imbued with the Name is approved,
God's Name lends prop to His serf,
that God's servant who remembers His Name with every breath.
Says Nanak, whose destiny is perfect,
his soul remains attached with His Name.
Gauri 5th Guru.
By Saints' favour I have meditated on God's Name.
Since then, my wandering mind has been sated.
Abode of peace, I have obtained by singing God's praises.
My trouble has ceased, and demon (of my wickedness) is destroyed. Pause.
Reflect upon the lotus feet of the fortunate Lord.
Through God's meditation my anxiety has ended.
I, an orphan, have abandoned all, and have entered the Sanctuary of the One Lord.
Since then, I have easily obtained the highest abode.
My trouble, pain and doubt have run out of my mind.
The Creator has acquired an abode in Nanak's mind.
Gauri 5th Guru.
With the hands I perform Lord's service and with the tongue I sing His praises.
With the feet I walk the way of the Master.
Auspicious in the life time wherein is obtained an opportunity to remember God.
By repeating the Name the terrible ocean is crossed. Pause.
With thine eyes behold the sight of the Saints.
The Immortal Lord, do thou inscribe within thy mind.
Repairing to the Saints hear the Lord's praises being sung.
That my fear of birth and death may depart.
Lord's lotus feet, place thou in thy mind.
Thus save thy invaluable human body (life), O Nanak.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The man, whom the Lord shows His mercy,
utters God's Name with his tongue.
By forgetting God, superstition and sorrow overtake the mortal.
Meditating on the Name, doubt and dread flee. Pause.
Who heart God's praises and sings god's praises,
misfortune drays not near that man.
God's slave looks beauteous, when he performs His service.
Him the fire of mammon touches not.
Within mind, body and mouth is the Name of the Compassionate Lord,
and Nanak has forsaken all other entanglements.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Shed thy wit and excessive cleverness.
Seek thou the support of the Perfect Guru.
Thine sorrows shall depart and in peace thou shalt sing God's praises.
By meeting the Perfect Guru, love (with the Lord) is contracted. Pause.
The Guru has given me the mantra of god's Name.
My worries are effaced, and gone is the anxiety.
Happiness has ensued on meeting the Merciful Guru.
Showering His benediction, He cut the noose of Death's Minister.
Says Nanak, I have obtained the Perfect Guru,
therefore, mammon shall, harass me no more.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Himself the Perfect Guru has rescued me.
An apostate is infested with calamity.
Remember the Great Guru, O my friend.
Thy face shall become bright in the Lord's court. Pause.
Enshrine thou Guru's feet within thy mind,
and thy sorrow, enemy and calamity shall be destroyed.
Guru's Word is thy comrade and succour.
And all the sentient beings shall be kind to thee, o brother.
When the Perfect Guru showered his benediction,
says Nanak, I was fully-filled then.
Gauri 5th Guru,
Many dainties, the mortal eats like a beast.
With the rope of worldly love, he is bound down like a thief,
Without the Society of Saints, the body is a corpse.
One comes and goes in various live and is destroyed by pain. Pause.
Man wears beautiful robes of various Kinds,
but he is like a scare-crow in the field to frighten away the creatures.
All other bodies serve good many purposes,
Useless is man's who repeats mot Lord Name.
Says Nanak they, unto whom the Lord becomes merciful,
meditate on the world cherisher, by meeting the Saints guild.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Guru's Word stills worries and afflictions.
Coming and going cease and all the comforts are obtained.
My fear is dispelled by meditating on the Fearless God.
In the Society of the Saints, I chant the glories of God. Pause.
Lord's lotus feet, I have placed within my mind
The Guru has ferried me across the ocean of fire.
I was sinking, the Perfect Guru has extricated me.
The Guru has united me with the Lord from whom I was separated wince many births.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto the Guru,
by meeting whom my salvation has been accomplished.
Gauri 5th Guru.
In the congregation of Saints take to His refuge.
Thy soul and body do thou place before the Lord.
Quaff the ambrosial Name, O my brother.
By remembering and meditating on the Lord, the fire is entirely quenched. Pause.
Shed thy self-conceit and end thine births and deaths.
Make obeisance unto the feet of God's slave.
With every breath, remember the Lord.
Amass that wealth, which may go with thee.
He alone obtains the Name on whose brow such lot is scribed.
Says Nanak, fall thou at the feet of that Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The withered, God makes green, in a trice.
Him ambrosial look irrigates and revives them.
The Perfect and Bright Guru, has removed my sufferings.
His attendant He blesses with His service. Pause.
Anxiety is removed, and heart's desires are fulfilled,
when True Guru, the treasure of excellence showers his benediction.
Pain flees, peace comes and takes its place,
it happens without delay, when the Guru orders it.
All desires are fulfilles when the perfect Guru meets,
O Nanak, they bear Good fruit.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Fever has departed, and the Lord has rained peace.
All are rendered clam. The Lord has given His gift;
By Lord's grace, we have become comfortable.
Separated since many births, we have been united with the Lord. Pause.
By continuously remembering the Lord's Name,
the abode of all the diseases is destroyed.
With composure and superb affection utter god's hymns.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, ponder on the Lord, O mortal.
Pain and Death's courier draw not near him,
says Nanak, who sings god's praises.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Propitious is the day and propitious the chance,
when I met the Uncontaminated Supreme Lord.
I am a sacrifice unto that time.
when my mind remembers the Name of god. Pause.
Blessed is that moment and blessed is the time,
when my tongue repeats God's Name.
Accredited is the forehead, that bows to the Saints.
Sacred are the feet that walk on God's path.
Says Nanak, auspicious is my fortune,
by virtue of which I touched the Saints (Guru) feet.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Keep thou Guru's Word in thy mind.
By remembering the Name all the anxiety is removed.
Save the Auspicious Lord, there is not any other.
He alone protects and destroys. Pause.
Guru's feet, place thou in the heart of thy heart.
ocean of fire, thou shalt cross through Lord's meditation.
with guru's from, fix thou thy attention.
Here and there thou shalt obtain honour.
Abandoning all, Nanak has entered Guru's Sanctuary.
His anxieties are over, and he has obtained peace.
Gauri 5th Guru.
By remembering whom all the agonies end.
And the Name jewel comes and abides in the mind.
O my soul, repeat thou the hymns of the Master of the Universe.
With the Lord on their tongue the sacred persons have uttered, these hymns. Pause.
Without one God there is not any other.
By His gracious glance eternal peace is obtained.
Make the One Lord, thy friend intimate and comrade.
inscribe in the mind the Word of Lord God.
The Lord is pervading everywhere.
Nanak says the praises of the Searcher of hearts.
Gauri 5th Guru.
In fear the whole world is engrossed.
He, who has the Name for his support, has no fear.
Fear clings not to him, who is under thine protection, (O Lord).
Thou doest that what pleases thee. Pause.
In woe and weal, the mortal continues coming and going.
They, who are pleasing to the Lord, obtain comfort.
The mammon is pervading this big ocean of fire.
Calm and cool are they who have obtained the True Guru.
O Lord the Preserver, preserve me,
Says Nanak, what an helpless creature am I?
Gauri 5th Guru.
By thy grace, O Lord, the Name is repeated.
By thy grace the seat is obtained in Thine court.
Without Thee, O Supreme Lord, there is no other.
By Thy grace ever lasting peace is procured. Pause.
If thou abidest in the mind, misery overtakes not the mortal then.
By thine grace, doubt and fear run away.
Thou. O Limitless Lofty Lord Master,
art the inner-knower of all the heats.
I, Nanak make supplication before my True Guru,
that I may be blessed with the capital of the True Name.
Gauri 5th Guru.
As the husk is empty without the grain,
so is empty the mouth, without the Name.
O Mortal, ever, repeat the Name of Lord God.
Without God's Name cursed is the body which belongs to another (death). Pause
Sans the Name the countenance is not lit by fortune.
Without her spouse where is the married-life?
Who forgetting the Name is attached with other relishes,
gets none of his desires fulfilled.
O Lord, show Thine mercy and grant that gift,
so that Nanak may repeat Thy Name day and night.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Thou art Omnipotent and Thou alone art my Master.
Everything flows from, Thee Thou art the Inner-knower.
The perfect Transcendent Lord is the support of His serf.
Seeking Thine shelter millions of persons are saved, (O Master). Pause.
As many as the creatures are, they are all Thine.
From Thine grace many comforts ensue.
What-ever happens, all that is in thy will.
He, who understands his command, gets absorbed in the True Lord.
My Master, be kind and grant that boon,
so that Nanak may meditate on thine Name-treasure.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Through very good fortune, God's vision is obtained by him,
who has enshrined love for the Lord's Name.
He in whose heart god abides,
gets not pain even in dream. Pause.
All the treasures of goodness, the Lord has placed within his slave's mind.
In his company sins and sorrows are effaced.
The praise of God's attendant cannot be described.
The attendant remains absorbed in the supreme Lord.
Show mercy, O Lord, and hear my supplication.
Bless Nanak with the dust of thy slave's feet.
Gauri 5th Guru.
By remembering God, thy calamity shall be averted,
and all the joys shall come and abide within thy mind.
Meditate thou, O my mind, on the Name alone.
It shall be of avail unto thy soul. Pause.
Night and day, sing the praises of the Infinite Lord.
as per the holy instruction of the Perfect Guru.
Renounce other efforts, and put thy faith in thy Lord alone.
Thus shalt thou taste nectar relish, the supremely precious commodity.
Those person alone, cross the formidable ocean,
on whom, O Nanak, the Lord casts a His merciful glance.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Within my mind I have placed the Lord's lotus feet,
and am emancipated by meeting the perfect True Guru.
Chant the glories of the world Lord O my brother.
Meeting the Saints, meditate upon God's Name. Pause.
Then the difficult to obtain body is approved,
when the mortal receives the 'Name certificate' from the True Guru.
By remembering God, the perfect status is obtained.
In the Society of Saints, dread and doubt depart.
Wherever I behold, there the Lord is pervading.
Servant Nanak has entered God's Sanctuary.
Gauri 5th Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto the vision of the Reverend Guru.
I live by continuously repeating the name of the true Guru.
O my Lord incarnate, Perfect and Luminous Guru,
show mercy, that I may take to thy service. Pause.
Guru's lotus feet, I clasp to my mind and heart.
I tender My mind, body and wealth to the Guru, the prop of my very life.
My life is rendered profitable and acceptable,
by deeming close to me the Transcendent Lord Guru.
Through the greatest good luck, the dust of Saints feet is obtained.
Nanak, by meeting the Guru, the love with God is contracted.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Man does evil deeds but shows otherwise.
In the Pervading Lord's court he shall be bound down like a thief.
He, who remembers the Lord belongs to the Lord.
The One Lord is contained in ocean, Land and sky. Pause.
Within him is poison, and with his mouth he preaches Nectar.
Bound in death's city he suffers strokes.
In (behind) many screens the mortal commits sins.
But in an instant thy they are laid bare to the world.
Who is true from within, and is imbued with the Name Nectar;
O Nanak, unto him, God the describer of destiny is Merciful.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Lord's love never departs.
He, whom the Perfect Guru instructs and gives receives this love.
The man, who is imbued with God's affection is true.
The Perfect and Omnipotent Beloved, the Destiny Scribe, is all love. Pause.
Sitting with Saints, the Guru-ward sings Lord's praises.
His colour (of love) fades and goes not.
Without God's meditation, comfort is not obtained.
All other loves of mammon are insipid.
They, whom the Guru stains with Lord's love become happy.
Says Nanak, unto them the Guru has Become merciful.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Meditating on the Master the sins are effaced,
and man abides in bliss, peace and joy.
Lord's slaves have faith in the Lord.
Meditating on the Name all the anxieties are annulled. Pause.
In the Society of Saints, no dread and doubt infests,
and day and night, the praises of the World Cherisher are sung.
Showing His mercy, the Lord has freed me of the fetters,
and has given me the support of His lotus feet.
Says Nanak, the faith comes in the mind of God's servant,
and he ever quaffs the pure praises of the Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
When mind is attached to God's feet,
the misery, pang and doubt flee.
Perfect is the trader who Purchases God's wealth.
Mortal alone is a hero, on whom the Lord confers honour. Pause.
The men unto whom the Lord of the Universe is merciful,
fall at the feet of the Guru.
They are blessed with celestial solace, tranquility and happiness,
and they live by ever meditating on the Supreme Bliss.
In the Society of Saints, I have earned the capital of God's Name.
Says Nanak, the Lord has annulled my affliction.
Gauri 5th Guru.
By remembering God all the anguishes have ended.
Lord's Lotus feet are enshrined within the mind.
Utter thou the Name of the Pervading Lord, the hundred thousand times.
O my dear tongue, drink thou the immortalising Nectar of the Lord. Pause.
Thou shalt procure peace equipoise pleasure and great joy,
if thou livest by repeatedly remembering God, the embodiment of Supreme Bliss.
Lust wrath avarice and ego are shed,
and in the guild of Saints, the mortal is washed clean of all the sins.
Show Thine mercy, O Lord, compassionate to the poor,
grant Nanak the dust of Saints feet.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Whose gifts the man wears and eats,
how can indolence with Him (in his service) behoove the man, O mother?
She who forgetting her Spouse, attaches herself to other affairs.
casts away the jewel in exchange for a shell. Pause.
She forsakes the Lord and is attached with the desire of others.
But who has acquired honour by saluting the slave instead of his Master?
The man takes food and drinks as delicious as Nectar.
But the dog knows not Him, who endows (these things)
Says Nanak, I am Thy salt-betrayer.
O my Master, the Inner-Knower, Thou pardon me.
Gauri 5th Guru.
On Lord's feet, I meditate within my mind.
For me this is the bath and ablution at all the places of pilgrimage.
Everyday contemplate over God, O my brother.
Thus shall the filth of thy millions of births be removed. Pause.
By placing God's gospel in thy mind,
thou shalt obtain all thine heart desired boons.
Acceptable is the life, death and birth of him,
within whose mind the Auspicious Master abides.
Says Nanak perfect are those persons,
who are blessed with the dust of Saints feet.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Who eats, wears and denies the Lord;
him the couriers of the Righteous Judge stalk.
The mortal is faithless with Him, who has given him soul and body.
He wanders through millions of births and goes many existences. Pause.
Such is the life-routine of the mammon worshipper,
whatever he does all that is the evil way,
Who has created his soul, very life mind and body,
within his mind, the man grows forgetful of that very Lord.
His sins have increased, and are penned down on volumes of paper.
Nanak, the sinner is saved by the grace of the Ocean of peace.
O Supreme Lord, I have entered Thine sanctuary.
Break Thou my bonds that, with God's Name, I may swim across. Pause second.
Gauri 5th Guru.
For his own advantage, man makes God his friend.
God gives him all the riches and the status of salvation.
Let all the men, make such (God) their friend.
From Him; none goes empty handed. Pause.
He who for his own motive enshrines Him in his heart,
the Lord removes the suffering pang, and all the maladies of him.
Whose tongue is habituated to repeat Lord's Name,
all his affairs are set aright.
Many a time Nanak is a sacrifice unto his Lord,
whose sight is fruitful, and who is the prop of the universe.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Millions of obstacles are removed in a moment, of him,
who hears the Lord God's gospel in the Society of Saints.
He quaffs Lord's elixir, immortalising is whose property.
By reflecting on God's feet, his hunger departs. Pause.
He obtains all the joy, and the treasures of comfort, and equipoise,
within whose mind the Fortunate Lord dwells.
The medicines, spells and charms are all ashes.
Enshrine in thy heart, the Creator.
Cast off all thine doubts, and ponder over the Illustrious Lord.
Says Nanak, eternal is this religion.
Gauri 5th Guru.
That Lord has mercifully united me with the Guru.
By His power no malady clings to me.
Remembering the Pervading Lord, the terrible ocean is crossed.
Through the patronage of the warrior Guru, death's account papers are torn. Pause.
The True Guru has given me the spell of God's Name.
By this support, my affairs have been adjusted.
I attained meditation, hard toil, self-control, and perfect glory,
when the Succour Guru-God became merciful.
Egotism, worldly love, and superstition of mine, the Guru has annulled.
Nanak sees the Transcendent Lord pervading everywhere.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The blind man is better than the vicious king.
Overtaken by woe, the blind man invokes Lord's Name.
For Thy slave, OO Lord, Thou alone art the honour.
Mammon's intoxication, leads the mortal to hell. Pause.
Caught by disease (the blind man) repeats the Name.
(But the vicious man) intoxicated with vice has no room or place of rest.
He, who bears love to Lord's lotus feet,
thinks not of other comforts.
For ever and ever meditate upon the Lord Master.
O Nanak, do meet thou God, The Inner-Knower.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Night and day, the highway robbers are my comrades.
Showing His benediction, the Lord has dispersed them.
Everyone ought to repeat such Nectar the name of God.
That Lord is brimful with all the might. Pause.
Exceedingly scorching is the world ocean.
In a moment, the Lord causes the mortal to cross over.
Many are the shackles, which cannot be shattered.
By remembering God's Name, man obtains the fruit of salvation.
This man can accomplish nothing through, any device or cleverness.
Show mercy unto Nanak O Lord, that he may sing Thine Praises.
Gauri 5th Guru.
He who obtains the wealth of God's Name,
moves freely in the world, and has all his affairs adjusted.
Through the greatest good luck, god's praises are sung.
My Supreme Lord, if Thou givest, then, does the man obtain (the singing of Thine praises). Pause.
God's feet, enshrine thou in thy heart and mind.
Embarking on the ship of God's feet, thou shalt cross the terrible ocean.
Let everyone mix with the society of Saints,
whereby eternal peace is obtained and pain harasses not again.
Through devotional service, meditate on the Treasure of excellences.
Like this, O Nanak, honour is obtained in the Lord's court.
Gauri 5th Guru.
In water, land, and sky, God the Friend, is fully contained.
Doubts depart by ever singing, the Lord's praises.
In waking and sleep, God is man's Companion and Watch-man
By remembering him, man is rid of the fear of Death's courier. Pause.
Enshrining Lord's feet in the mind,
all the afflictions end.
One Lord is my hope, honour, power and wealth.
Within my mind is the support of the True Lender.
Of Lord's Saints I am an very poor, and friendless person.
But giving His hand Lord has saved me, O Nanak.
Gauri 5th Guru.
By having ablution in the Lord God's Name, I have been rendered pure.
Great is its reward, more than even giving of charity at millions of eclipses. Pause.
By abiding God's feet with the mind,
the sins of many births flee.
I have obtained the reward of Singing God's praises, in the Saints congregation,
and hence, death's way I see not.
O man, In thought, word, and deed seek the support of the Lord,
and therewith thou shalt be saved of the poisonous world.
By His grace, the Lord has made me His own.
Nanak, meditate on the Name of god, who is worthy of meditation.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Seek thou the shelter of those who have realised the Lord.
The soul and body become cool if on imbued with God's feet.
Lord the Destroyer of dread, thou enshrinest not in thy mind,
In fear and awe many lives of thine shall pass away. Pause.
He, within whose mind abides god's Name,
has all his desires and tasks fulfilled.
Within whose power is birth, old age and dearth,
that Omnipotent Lord, remember thou with every breath and morsel of thine.
The One Lord is my Intimate Friend and Comrade.
The Master's Name alone is Nanak's prop.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Abroad (the saints) carefully keep the Lord of World in their mind.
Returning home, they bring Him along.
Lord God's Name is the Saints comrade.
Their soul and body are imbued with the love of the Omnipresent Lord. Pause.
By the Guru's grace the world-ocean is crossed,
and the sins of many births are all washed off.
Through the Name of the auspicious Master, honour and Divine understanding are acquired.
Pure is the teaching of the perfect Guru.
On Lord's Lotus feet meditate thou in thy mind.
Nanak loves by seeing the Lord's effulgence.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Blessed is this place, where they sing praises of the World Master.
The Lord Himself Blesseth them with peace and pleasure. Pause.
Calamity is there, where God's meditation is not.
Millions of joys are, where God's glories are chanted.
Forgetting god, good many anguishes and maladies overtake the man.
By virtue of Lord's service death 's courier draws not near the mortal.
Very lucky and stable is the place,
where Lord's Name, alone, is repeated.
Wherever I go, thither, my Master is with me.
To Nanak the Knower of hearts has met.
Gauri 5th Guru.
He who meditates on the Preserver of the World,
obtains the Supreme Dignity whether he is educated or uneducated.
In the society of saints, do thou contemplate over the Word Cherisher.
Without the Name, false are the wealth and property. Pause.
That man alone is handsome clever and wise,
who surrenders himself to Lord will.
In this world, his advent is approved,
who recognises his Lord in every heart.
Says Nanak, he whose fortune is perfect,
applies his mind to God's feet.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The mammon-worshipper keeps not company with God's servant.
He (the -former) is sensuous, and the other (latter) bears love to the Lord. Pause.
(Their association is like this) as an imaginary rider a decked mare.
As an eunuch caresses a woman
As by putting a tether the ox is milked.
As riding a cow the man chases the tiger.
As taking a sheep one adores it like a cow.
Or as man goes out for buying merchandise without capital.
Meditate thou, O Nanak, on the Name of All Pervading God in thy mind.
Deliberate over thou the friend like Lord God.
Gauri 5th Guru.
That intellect is said to be pure and steadfast,
which quaffs Lord's Nectar, O brother.
In thy mind have the prop of God's feet,
and thou shalt rid of birth and death. Pause.
That body is blotless wherein the sin springs not.
Through the Lord's love, pure glory is obtained.
In the society of saints the vice is effaced.
This is the Lord's greatest beneficence unto thee.
Those who are stained with the love adoration of the World Cherisher,
Nanak asks for the dust of the feet of such saints.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Such an affection I have contracted with the World Lord,
that He has untied me with Himself and I have become perfectly very fortunate. Pause.
As the wife is delighted on beholding her spouse,
that is how God's slave lives by repeating His Name.
As the mother revives on seeing her son,
so is God's serf imbued with Him like thread of cloth.
As the greedy man rejoices to see the wealth,
so is Lord's servant's soul attached with His lotus feet.
I forget Thee not even for a trice O my Beneficent Lord.
Nanak's Master is the support of his very life.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The saints who are inured to Lord's elixir,
are pierced through with the devotional service of His lotus feet. Pause.
All other enjoyments appear like ashes,
without God's Name, unfruitful is the advent in this world.
The Lord Himself takes out of the blind well.
Wondrous are the praises and effulgence of the World Lord.
In woods vegetation and the three worlds, the Cherisher of the Universe is fully pervading.
The merciful Lord of the creation, is with the mortal.
Says Nanak that speech alone is excellent,
which is approved by the creator.
Gauri fifth Guru.
Every day have bath in Lord's tank.
Shaking it, drink the delicious nectar of the God. Pause.
Immaculate is the water of Lord's name.
By having ablution therein, all the affairs are accomplished.
In the saints congregation, there the Divine discourse is held,
and sins of myriad of births are effaced.
The saints remember God, and make merry.
Their soul and the body remain immersed in the Supreme bliss.
Who has obtained the treasure of God's feet.
servant Nanak is a sacrifice unto him.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Do thou only that by which filth may not attach to thee,
and this soul of thine may remain awake in singing God's praises. Pause.
Meditate in the One Lord, and think not duality.
In the guild of saints repeat only the Name.
Rituals, duty, religious rites, fasting and worship,
are all covered recognising none else in sans the Supreme Lord.
The toil those is approved,
whose affection is with his own Master.
Infinitely invaluable is that vegetarian,
says Nanak; who renounced sins.
Gauri 5th Guru.
In thy life the kinsmen leave thee O mad man.
After death can any one be benefited by them.
He who is so pre-destined remembers the World-Lord with his soul and body.
The deadly sins are of no avail. Pause
Whosoever has partaken of the poison of deception,
his thirst never departs.
The arduous world ocean is with dreadful distresses.
Without the Name of Pervading God how shall the mortal cross it?
In the company of saints save thine both generations,
Say Nanak, by remembering the Lord's Name.
Gauri 5th Guru.
If one haughtily strokes his beard on the poor,
the Lofty Lord burns it in fire.
The Creator administers perfect justice.
He is the Saviour of His slave. Pause
In the beginning and with the start f the ages His glory His glory is manifest.
The slanderer dies of catching high fever.
He is smitten by Him whose kill no one can save.
Here and hereafter evil is his reputation.
His serfs the Lord keeps clasped to His bosom.
Nanak seeks God's shelter and meditates on His Name.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The Lord Himself proved the memorandum to be false.
Affliction befell the sinner.
Death does not come near to him whose helper is Lord. Pause.
Death does not come near to him whose helper is Lord. Pause.
The blind fool tells lies in the True court,
and smites his head with his hands.
Ailments afflict those who commit sins.
The Lord Himself sits as the Judge.
They are bound by their own actions.
All the wealth goes away with the life.
Nanak has taken the shelter of Lord's Court.
My Creator has saved my honour.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The dust of feet of the saints is sweet unto my mind.
In mortal's (my) lot, it was so pre-ordained by the Primal Being. Pause.
The mind is brimful with the grease of haughty intellect.
With the dust of the feet of the saints it is scrubbed clean.
With many waters if the body be washed,
its filth is not removed and it becomes not clean.
I have met the ever merciful True Guru,
and by pondering and contemplation, over God, I have cast off the fear of Death.
Salvation, dainties and secular success are all in God's Name.
With devotional-affection, O Nanak, sing God's praises.
Gauri 5th Guru.
God's slaves attain to the immortal status.
By meeting them the soul is illumined.
With your mind and ears, hear God's Name,
and thou shalt obtain peace at God's gate, O mortal. Pause.
Throughout the eight watches meditate on the Cherisher of the world.
By beholding Lord's vision, Nanak is very pleased.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Peace has ensued. The Guru-God has rained it.
My burning and sins have departed, O my brother. Pause.
With thy tongue, do thou, ever, repeat Lord's Name.
Thine ailments shall go, and thou shalt be emancipated.
Reflect over the merits of the Inscrutable Supreme Lord.
In the guild of the righteous emancipation is obtained.
O my friend, who for ever and ever sings the pure praises of God,
his ailments pass-away, and he is saved.
With thought, word and deed I dwell upon my Master.
Slave Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary, O Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The Divine Guru has opened the eyes.
My doubts have fled, and my service has been successful. Pause.
From the small pox the Joy-giver has saved.
The Lofty Lord, Master, has shown His mercy.
Nanak, he alone loves, who repeats Lord's Name.
In the assembly of the pious persons, he drinks God's elixir.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Blessed is the brow (which bows before Thee), and blesses the eyes (which see) Thine (sight O Lord).
Blessed are those saints who have love with Thee.
Without the Name how can peace be obtained?
With thy tongue, repeat thou the praises of the Lord, Name. Pause.
Nanak is a sacrifice unto those,
who have meditated on the Immaculate Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Thou art my counsel, and thou art ever with me.
Thou alone carefully preservest me.
Such the Omnipresent Lord, who is my succour in the World beyond and this one.
He save the honour of His servant, O my brother. Pause.
He alone is hereafter, under whose power this place is.
Day and night, O my soul, do thou meditate on God.
His honour is approved, and he alone comes to bear the mark of the True Name,
for whom, the Lord Himself issues the command.
The Lord himself is the Giver, and Himself the Cherisher.
For ever and aye, O Nanak, remember the Lord's name.
Gauri 5th Guru.
When the perfect True Guru becomes merciful,
God, the Nurturer of the universe, ever, abides within man's mind.
By deliberating over the Pervading Lord, I have gained Eternal peace.
God, the perfect king, has shown mercy unto me. Pause.
Says Nanak, he, whose destiny is perfect,
meditates on the Name of Lord God, the Ever-stable Spouse.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The Brahman opens his loin-cloth, and spreads it beneath him.
Like donkey, he gulps down his belly all that comes in his way.
Without good actions, emancipation is not obtained.
The wealth of salvation is procured by remembering the name. Pause.
He performs worship and ablution, and puts sacred mark on his brow.
With his hand, he pulls out the Knife to get alms.
With mouth's sweet tune he recites the Vedas.
The mortal shirks not from killing the sentient beings.
Says Nanak, he unto whom God shows mercy,
is pure in mind and reflects on the Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Sit steadily at home, O dear slaves of God.
The True Guru has arranged your affairs. Pause.
The Lord has smitten the wicked and the evil.
The slave's honour, the Creator has preserved.
The kings and Emperors the Lord has all subjected to his slave.
He has quaffed the great essence of the ambrosial name.
Fearlessly meditate on the fortunate Lord.
Meet the society of saints and give this gift of Lord's meditation to others.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of Lord, the Inner-knower,
and grasped the support of the Lord Master.
Gauri 5th Guru.
He who is imbued with God's love, burns not in fire.
He, who is imbued with love him the mammon beguiles not.
He who is stained with God's affection, drowns not in water.
He who is imbued with Lord's love bears good fruit.
All the fears are stilled with Thine name.
Meeting the society of saints, o man sing thou the praises of Lord God. Pause.
He, who is imbued with Lord's Love, is freed from all the anxieties.
He alone immerses in Lord's Love, who is blessed with saintly Guru's instruction.
Imbued with Lord's love, the fear of death no longer haunts.
imbued with God's affection, the hopes are realised.
Stained with God, agony afflicts not.
Stained with God, man remains awake night and day.
Stained with God, Man abides in an abode of peace.
Stained with God, one's doubt and dread flee
Being tinged with the Lord, the intellect is rendered exquisite.
Being tinged with Lord, immaculate becomes the reputation.
Says Nanak, I am devoted unto those,
who forget not my Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
By making an effort (to the Good), the soul is pacified,
By walking the way of God all the afflictions are annulled.
By Repeating the Lord's Name, the mind is rendered blissful.
By singing God's praises with love, supreme bliss is acquired.
There is joy all over and beatitude has entered my home.
By associating with Saints' guild, my calamity has disappeared. Pause.
The eyes are rendered pure immediately on seeing Guru's sight.
The brow becomes praise-worthy on touching the Guru's lotus feet.
By performing the service of the World-Master, fruitful becomes this body.
By the Saints' grace, I have obtained the supreme status.
To his serfs the Lord Himself gives assistance.
By falling at the feet of His attendants I have obtained peace.
When ego is gone, then the man becomes the Lord Himself,
and seeks the shelter of the Treasure of mercy.
When one attains Him, whom he longs for,
then to what place should he go to search Him?
He becomes eternal, and abides in an abode of peace.
By Guru's favour, Nanak has entered the Home of Bliss.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Taking millions of baths and ablutions at holy places,
and giving millions billions and trillions as alms,
One obtains the merit of all those in whose heart God's Name abides.
They, who sing the praises of the World-Cherisher are all pure.
Sins are effaced by seeking the shelter of the kind saints. Pause.
The merit of performing many reversed penances and good deeds,
and gaining various profits and heart's desires,
is attained by uttering Lord God's Name with the tongue.
Consider that one has read the Simrities Shashtras and the Vedas,
and has realised the science of Yoga, Divine comprehension and the pleasure of working miracles,
when one is propitiated with the Lord, and repeats His Name.
The knowledge of the Inaccessible and Inimitable God is beyond comprehension.
He (Nanak) utters God's Name and reflects on the same in his mind,
unto Nanak, the Lord has shown mercy.
Gauri 5th Guru.
By remembering, remembering, remembering God, I have procured peace.
The Guru's lotus feet, I have enshrined within my mind.
The Guru-God Supreme Lord Incarnate is perfect.
Meditating on Him my soul is rendered steadfast. Pause.
Night and day I meditate on the Name if the Great Guru.
Thereby all my affairs have been accomplished.
Seeing Guru's sight my mind is pacified,
and my sins of, many births are washed off.
Says Nanak, where is the fear for me, now, O brother?
Of his attendant, the Guru, Himself has preserved the honour.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Of His slave, the Lord Himself is the Succour
Ever, He cherishes him like Father and Mother.
By Lord's protection every one is delivered.
That perfect True Lord is the Doer and Prompter of actions.
Now, my soul abides in the Creator.
The fears are dispelled, and the soul has required the excellent solace.
His serfs, the Lord has mercifully saved.
Their sins of many births are washed off.
Lord's glory cannot be narrated.
Servant Nanak is ever, under the protection of God.
Measure, Gauri Cheti 5th Guru Dupade
There is but one God. By the favour of the True Guru He is obtained.
Universal is the power of the Omnipresent Lord, O brother.
Wherefore no anguish befalls me now. Pause.
O mother whatever God's slave wishes,
Creator Himself causes all that to be done.
The slanderer the Lord causes to lose honour.
Nanak Sings the praise of the fearless Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
O my strong armed puissant Lord, the Ocean of peace. I am falling into the pit. Take my by the finger (hand). Pause.
Mine ears have no sense, mine eyes are not beautiful and, afflicted and crippled, I cry at Thine door.
O Patron of the poor and patronless, and the Embodiment of munificence, Thou art my Friend intimate, Father and Mother.
Nanak hold fast to thy heart the lotus feet o the Lord, who causes His saints to cross the terrible ocean.
Rag Gauri Bairagan 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the favour of the True Guru, He is known.
O Venerable Lord God, my friend dwell Thou With me. Pause.
Without Thee I cannot live even for a moment, and accursed is my life in the world.
My Reverential Lord, the Giver of peace to my soul and life, every moment I am a sacrifice unto Thee.
Give me the prop of Thine hand, O Lord, the World Cherisher, and take me out of the pit.
I am devoid of merit and of paltry understanding. Thou art, ever, merciful to the meek.
What comforts, given by Thee can recollect, and in what way can I meditate on Thee?
O lofty, Inaccessible, and infinite Lord, Thou lovest Thine slaves, and blendest with Thee those, who seek Thine shelter.
All the wealth, and eight Supernatural powers, are in the name's supreme elixir.
The persons, with whom the beautifully haired God is mightily pleased, sing His praises.
Thou at my mother, father, son, Kinsman, and the support of very life.
In the society of saints, Nanak meditates on the Lord and so swims across the world ocean of poison.
Gauri Bairagan Rohoi Ke Chant 5th Guru.
There is but One God By the favour of the True Guru, He is known.
Is there any one to sing the praises of the Darling Lord?
He shall, surely, obtain all the pleasures and comforts. Pause
The renouncer goes searching God in various woods.
But rare is the man, who embraces love for one God.
Very fortunate are they who obtain God.
For him yearn gods like Brahma, and Sanak and the like.
The yogis, celibates, and men of miracles long for God.
He, who is blessed therewith, chants God's glories.
I have sought the shelter of those who forget not God.
Through the greatest Good fortunate God's saint is met.
From birth and Death they are absolutely immune.
My darling Beloved, show mercy and show me Thine sight.
Hear my supplication, O my lofty Infinite Lord,
Nanak asks for the support of thy Name.
Rag Gauri Purbi, 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the grace of the True Guru He is known.
By What virtues can I meet the Lord of my life, O my mother? Pause
Without beauty and understanding and without might I am I, the stranger, have come from a far.
I have no wealth nor the elation of youth. Orphan, as I am blend me with Thee, O Lord.
Searching and searching I have become desireless and I wander thirsting for Lord's sight.
Merciful to the meek, is Nanak's co, passionate Master. In the society of saints my burning has been slaked.
Gauri 5th Guru.
To meet the Lord within my mind love has sprung.
I touch His feet and make a supplication. By great good luck, let some saint come and meet me. Pause.
I surrender my mind unto him. Before Him I place my wealth and my waywardness I all renounce.
Who preaches unto me the gospel of Lord God absorbed in love night and day, I follow him.
When the plumule of the acrions of past sprouted I mer Lord the Reveller and Detached.
My darkness is dispelled on meeting God, O Nanak and I am awakened after being asleep for numberless births.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Saved thyself O my soul-bird, by making God's meditation thy wings.
Meet the Saint-Guru see his sanctuary and keep clasped to thy heart, the Lord's perfect jewel. Pause.
Superstition is the small well, the thirst for pleasure is its mire and exceedingly sharp is the noose of worldly love.
its cutter is the Master the world's Guru. Abide thou at His lotus feet.
O Master of the Universe, the Patron of the poor. My Beloved Lord mercifully hear my
prayer Grasp me by the hand, O Nanak's Lord. My soul and body are all Thine capital.
Gauri 5th Guru.
To see the vision of God, my soul remembers Him.
In the hope and thirst of seeing my Lord, day and night I think of Him. Is there any saint, who may intimately unite me with Him? Pause.
I serve the slave of Lord's slaves, and in many a way, I supplicate Him?
Putting in the scale, I have weighed all the comforts. without God's sight they are all deficient.
By Saints grace I have sung the praise of Ocean of Excellences, and am redeemed while heading towards numberless births.
By meeting God, Nanak has attained joy and peace, and accredited is rendered his advent, and fruitful his opportunity.
Rag Gauri Purbi 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the favour of the True Guru, He is obtained.
By what means can I meet my Master, the King and the Lord of the world?
Is there any such saint, the giver of equipoise and peace, who may show me the way to the Master? Pause.
The Incomprehensible Lord is within, but owing to the intervening curtain of ego, He cannot be seen.
In the love of mammon, the entire world is asleep. Say How can this doubt depart?
The soul and the Supreme Soul belong to one stock, and live together in one home, but talk not to each other, O brother.
Without the one commodity of God's Name, the five organs of perception are miserable. That commodity is in an unapproachable place.
He, whose Home it is has put the lock to it, and gives the key to the Guru.
Without seeking the shelter of the True Guru, man cannot get the key, though he makes various other efforts.
They, whose shackles the True Guru has shattered enshrining love for saints guild.
Meeting together the elect pious persons sing joys songs, Between them and God, Nanak, there is no difference, O brother.
My Master, the King and Lord of the universe is met in this way
Celestial bliss is attained in a moment doubt has fled and by meeting the Master, my light is absorbed in the Supreme Light. Pause Second.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Such an intimacy I have developed with the Lord,
That in His mercy, my kind Beloved has told me of the True Guru. Pause.
Wherever I behold I find Thee there. I am now firmly convinced of it.
Before whom should I make a supplication and entreaty when the Lord Himself is hearing all.
My anxiety is over. The Guru has cut off my fetters. Therefore I have obtained eternal Supreme Bliss.
Whatever, is to be shall ultimately happen where can weal and woe be discerned then?
Of the world regions and solar system the One Lord is the support. By removing the curtain Guru has shown this to me.
The nine treasures of the Name wealth are in the one place (mind). To which outside place should one go then?
The same gold is fashioned into various varieties. Similarly from within Himself alone the Lord has made the creation of many patterns.
Says Nanak, the Guru dispelled my doubt Gold ornaments ultimately become gold. In the same way human reality, eventually, blends with Divine Reality.
Gauri 5th Guru.
By day and night the life goes in diminishing.
By meeting the Guru, O man, set aright thine affairs. Pause.
I make supplication. Listen to me. O my friend. This is the high time to serve the saints.
Over here, earn the profit of God's Name and depart. Hereafter, thou shalt have an adorned abode.
This world is engrossed in wickedness and scepticism. God's diving alone is saved.
He, whom God awakens to drink this essence of His Name, knows the discourse of the Ineffable Lord.
Buy only that commodity, for which thou hast come. Through Guru's grace, God shall dwell within thy heart.
In thy own home, thou shalt in comfort and ease obtain Lord's presence and thou shalt not undergo around again.
O Lord, the knower of hearts, and the designer of chances, fulfil Thou my heart's yearning.
Servant Nanak asks for this happiness that make me the dust of the feet of Thine saints, O Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Save me, O my father Lord.
I am without merit. All the merits are in Thee. Pause.
O Saviour, the five quarrelsome vices are the enemies of the sole poor soul Save me from them.
They cause me suffering, and immensely annoy me. So I have sought Thine shelter.
I have grown weary of adopting various and many means, but in no way do they leave me.
I have heard one thing, that they are uprooted in the saints' association. So I have sought their protection.
The saints have mercifully met me. Form them I have obtained satisfaction.
The saints have given me the Name of the Fearless Lord, and the Guru's word I have practised.
I have vanquished those great evil-doers and my speech is naturally, rendered sweet.
Says Nanak on my mind, the Divine Light has dawned and I have gained the Fearless status.
Gauri 5th Guru.
O my Imperishable King,
we fearlessly abide with Thee whence comes this fear? Pause.
In one person Thou art haughty and in another person meek.
In one person Thou art all by Thyself and in another person Thou art poor.
In one person Thou art a scholar and preacher and in another Thou art a fool.
In one body Thou graspest at everything and in one body Thou acceptest nothing.
What can the poor wooden puppet do? The Play-master knows everything.
As is the dress, the Puppeteer clothes the puppet with, so is the part which that puppet plays.
The Lord has fashioned various chambers of many descriptions and Himself is their Guard.
As is the mansion, wherein the Lord places the mortal, in the likewise he abides. what can this poor mortal do?
He, who has made something and who has created all this contrivance, understands it.
Says Nanak Infinite is the Lord The worth of His works He Himself knows.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Abandon, abondon, thou O man, the pleasures of sin.
O foolish and crazy man like the stray animal clinging to the crop, thou art entangled in the vicious deeds. Pause.
What thou deemest to of avail to thee, that goes not with thee even an inch.
Naked thou has come and naked shalt thou depart. Thou wilt go round the circuit of birth and deaths and become a morsel of death.
O man, seeing and beholding the Safflower like short-lived world-plays, thou art hand and glove with them and laughest till they last.
The string of life is wearing off day and night, and thou hast not done anything for thy soul.
Doing worldly deeds thou hast become old like this. Thy speech has failed and thy body has become weak.
As thou wert bewitched by the mammon in thy childhood from that affection not even a trice has diminished till now.
When the Guru showed me that such is the world, abandoning the place of pride, I entered Thine sanctuary, O Lord, then.
The saint has shown me the way to the Lord, slave Nanak has implanted in him God's service and praise
Gauri 5th Guru.
Without Thee, O Lord, who else is mine?
My Beloved, Thou art the support of my very life. Pause.
My heart's condition thou alone knowest. Thou art my illustrious Friend.
All the comforts I have derived from Thee, my unfathomable and Immeasurable Lord.
I cannot describe Thine manifestations, O Treasure of Merits and Bestower of Peace.
The Unapproachable, Incomprehensible and Imperishable Lord is known through the Perfect Guru.
Since I have effaced my ego, God has made me pure by stilling my doubt and dread.
By seeing Thine sight in the Society of saints, my anxiety of birth and death is ended, O Lord.
I wash the feet and perform the service of the Guru and a hundred thousand times I am a sacrifice unto Him.
By whose grace, servant Nanak has crossed this terrible world ocean and united with the Beloved.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Without Thee who can please Thee?
By beholding Thine beauty everyone is fascinated. Pause.
In paradise the under world, the mortal world and the solar system that One Lord is contained every where.
Folding their hands, all repeat Thy Name O Lord God, Merciful to one and all and cry for Thy help.
O my Master, the giver of peace the blot-less the cool, Thy Name is the Purifier of sinners.
Nanak Divine comprehension meditation and glory abide in having discourse with Thine Saints
Gauri 5th Guru.
Meet me thou O my hearty Beloved.
Whatever Thou dost, O Lord that happens. Pause
Wandering through many existences in several birth I suffered torture again and again.
By Thy grace, I have obtained the human body. Now grant me Thine view, O my God the King.
Whatever did please Him, that has come to pass, none wise can do anything.
In thy will lured by the illusion of worldly attachment the mortal is asleep and awakens not.
O Thou the beneficent Lord of life my Beloved the ocean of Mercy hear my supplication.
Save me O my father, my Lord and cherish Thou me an orphan.
Whom Thou O Lord, showest Thine sight for the sake of the Saints congregation,
Him Thou mercifully grantest the dust of Saints feet as well. This is the solace that Nanak craves for.
Gauri 5th Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto Him,
whose sole support is God's Name. Pause.
To what extent can I count the praises of those slaves of Him,
who are imbued with the love of the Supreme Lord? Peace, equipoise and bliss are with them. Equal to them, there are no other bestowers.
God's serfs, who thirst for His vision, they have come to save the world.
He, who seeks their shelter is saved and his hopes are realised in the society of saints.
If I fall at their feet, then alone, do I live, I remain happy, in the company of God's attendants.
O Lord, be kind to me that my mind may become the dust of Thine devotee's feet.
Empire, youth and age whatever is seen in this world, all that is wearing off.
The Treasure of Name, is ever brand new, and immaculate. This wealth of God, Nanak has earned.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The way of communion with the Lord I have heard from the Guru.
Unto me the Guru has communicated it by his instruction. Pause.
Every moment I make obeisance unto Him who is contained in the nine regions of the earth and this body.
Guru's gospel I have made my ear-rings, and I have enshrined the one Formless Lord within my heart.
Joining together the five disciples I have put them under the control of one conscience.
When (the five organs of perception and five of action) ten solitarians, become obedient, then was I rendered the immaculate yogi.
I have burnt my doubt, and with its ashes have I smeared my body. My sect is that I see the Lord as One.
That Celestial Bliss, I have made my band which the Lord had ordained for me on my forehead.
Where there is no fear there I have established my seat. The celestial strain is my yogi's horn.
The deliberation over the reality I have made my staff, and the love of Name in the mind is my way of life.
By great good fortune such a yogi is met, who can cut off the fetters of mammon.
Nanak, serves and adores this person and like his feet.
Gauri 5th Guru.
God's Name is the wealth beyond praise. Let all hearken and remember it, O friends.
They whom the Guru gives God's medicine their minds become neat and clean. Pause.
The darkness is dispelled from that body, wherein the lamp of Guru's word is lighted.
His noose of superstition is cut, who reposes faith in the guild of Saints.
Difficult to cross, dreadful word ocean is ferried by means of the ship of the congregation of saints.
By meeting the Guru, in love with God, my mind's desire is fulfilled.
The Name treasure, the Saints have gained, and their soul and body are satiated and sated.
Nanak, the venerable Lord gives it only to him, whom He causes to abide by His will.
Gauri 5th Guru.
O my Lord of life, show me mercy and compassion. I, patronless, have entered Thine Sanctuary, O Master.
From within the blind well take me out by giving Thy hand. I have no wisdom and device whatever. Pause.
Thou art the Designer of chances, thou art everything thou art Omnipotent. There is no other second beside Thee, O Lord.
Thine state and extent, thou alone knowest. They alone become Thy serfs, on whose brow good fortune is recorded.
With thy attendant Thou art imbued, O Lord. Like wasp and woof Thou art woven with Thine devotees.
They long for Thy darling sweet Name and Sight as the red-legged partridge desires to see the moon.
Between the Pervading Lord and His Saint, there is no difference. there is hardly one Saint of the Lord amongst several lacs and millions of mortals.
He, within whose mind the Lord revealed, night and day sings His praises with his tongue.
My Master, Thou art Omnipotent, Infinite, the most high the Giver of comfort and the Prop of life.
Show mercy unto Nanak, O Lord, that he may remain united with the society of the pious persons.
Gauri 5th Guru.
O Saint-Guru thou art imbued with God.
O my beneficent, destiny scribe God-Guru stand by me, and take me to my destination. Pause.
Thy secret, Thou alone Knowest, O my Guru. Thou art the All pervading Lord Creator.
Keep me, an helpless orphan, under Thine protection, and deliver me of my bondage.
To cross the world-ocean, thy feet are a ship. Thou alone knowest Thy way.
All they, whom Thou mercifully keepest with thee, go across the world-ocean.
Here and here-after, Thou, O Lord, art All-powerful. Everything is in thine hands.
O God's saint give me such a treasure which may go with me.
Grant merit unto me. the meritless, that my mind may repeat God's Name.
By the grace of saints, Nanak has met God, and his soul and body are tranquilised and satiated.
Gauri 5th Guru.
I am, easily, absorbed in the Lord, as,
unto me, the Divine True Guru has become merciful. Pause.
Severing the halter m the Guru has made me his slave and has put me to the Saints service.
I have become the adorer of the Name alone and the Guru has shown unto me the Wonderous Thing.
The Guru has revealed Divine knowledge within my mind and now there is light and illumination all-round.
By quaffing the Name Nectar my soul is sated and other fears are stilled.
Obeying Guru's commands I have obtained all the comforts and shattered the abode of pains.
When the Lord Master got mightily pleased, he revealed to me everything in the form of pleasure.
Nothing comes and nothing goes. All this play is set going by God the King.
Says Nanak Inaccessible and Inscrutable is the Lord. His devotees have the support only of God's Name.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The Transcendent Lord is the Perfect Master; O my soul hold fast to His protection,
who has established the universe and continents, O man repeat the Name of that God. Pause.
O God's slaves abandon the mind's cleverness. By realizing His will peace is procured
Whatever the Lord does accept that with pleasure. In weal and woe meditate on that Lord, O man.
Millions of sinners the Creator emancipates in a moment and no delay is caused therein.
Lord the destroyer of distress and disease of the meek glorifies him whom He likes.
The Lord is the Mother, Father and Cherisher of all. He is the life of all the beings and the ocean of Peace.
By giving, that Creator suffers no deficiency God the Mine of jewels is all pervading.
The beggar asks for Thy Name O Master. That Lord is contained in every heart.
Slave Nanak has entered the sanctuary of Him, from whose door none returns empty-handed.
Rag Gauri Purbi 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the favour of the True Guru, He is obtained.
Never forget the Lord God from Thy Mind.
Here and Here-after God is the Giver of all the comforts and sustains all the Hearts. Pause.
The great agonies He removes in an instant if the tongue utters His name.
In God's refuge are calmness peace and comfort and He extinguished the burning fire.
God saves man from the hellish pit of the womb and takes him across the fearful ocean.
By dwelling over The Lord's Lotus feet in his mind he banishes the fear of Death's courier.
The Lord is perfect, Transcendent Exalted High Inscrutable and Infinite.
By eulogising and remembering the Ocean of Peace life is not squandered away in gamble.
O the Beneficent Lord is the meritless, my mind is engrossed in lust, wrath, avarice and worldly love.
Show mercy unto Nanak and bless him with Thine Name. He is ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Measure Gauri Cheti 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the favour of the True Guru, He is obtained.
There is no peace O mortal without the devotional service of God.
Win for thyself this invaluable gem of him, an life by remembering God even for a moment in the Society of Saints. Pause.
Sons, wealth, wife, joyful sports and revetments,
have been left by many people.
Leaving behind all his horses, elephants and the pomp of empire,
the fool departs naked.
The body which felt puffed up with the essence of aloe wood and sandal,
that body shall roll in dust.
Infatuated with worldly love mortal deems God distant.
Says Nanak but he is ever present near.
Gauri 5th Guru.
O man, thou shalt swim across with the support of God's Name.
The Guru is the ship to ferry across the world-ocean full with the waves of superstition. Pause.
In the iron-age there is pitch darkness.
The Guru given lamp of Divine Knowledge enlightens it.
The poison of mammon is very greatly spread.
The virtuous are saved by constantly remembering God.
Intoxicated by mammon the man is asleep.
By meeting the Guru doubt and dread are dispelled.
Says Nanak, I have remembered the One Lord.
In every heart I have seen Him.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Thou alone art my High Official.
I perform Thine service with the support of the Guru. Pause.
By various devices I could find Thee not.
Taking hold of me the Guru has employed me as Thy slave.
I have annihilated the five oppressors.
By Guru's grace I have vanquished the army of evil.
I have received the one Name as Lord's bounty.
In peace equipoise and bliss is my abode now.
They who are Lord's serfs are good.
Nanak, bright (exonerated) become their faces.
Gauri 5th Guru.
O man thy only support is the Master's Name.
Whatever else is done and caused to be done, in them is the fear of Death's courier. Pause.
By another effort the Lord is not obtained.
By very good luck, God is meditated upon.
Man may know lacs of devices,
but none carries even a sesame's weight hereafter.
The good deeds done with proud intellect,
are swept off like the house of sand by water.
When the Kind Lord shows mercy,
Nanak receives the Name in the Society of Saints.
Gauri 5th Guru.
I am devoted and a sacrifice, lacs of times unto my Lord,
whose Name the Name alone is the prop of my life. Pause.
Thou alone art the Doer and Prompter.
Thou art the Support of the mortals and other creatures.
My Lord Master, Thou art my domain and youth.
Thou art the Related Lord and Thou the Absolute.
Here and There Thou art my Saviour.
By Guru's grace some rare one understands Thee.
The Omniscient Lord is the knower of hearts.
Thou art the mainstay and strength of Nanak.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Meditate thou on God, the Lord Master.
Through the Society of Saints, God abides in the mind and doubt secular attachment and dread are vanquished. Pause.
The Vedas, Puranas, and Simirtis proclaim,
that God's slaves are heard to abide the highest of all.
Know that all the places are awe stricken.
The Lord's serfs are rendered fear-free.
Through eighty four lacs of existences the mortals wander.
Lords slaves come and go not.
Power wisdom, cleverness and egoism are shed,
as Nanak has caught hold of the refuge of God's Saints.
Gauri 5th Guru.
My soul sing the praise of Pervading God's Name.
Ever and ever serve God, and meditate on the Lord with every breath of thine. Pause.
By the association of Saints, God dwells in the mind,
and distress pain, darkness and doubt flee.
One who through Saints favour remembers God,
that person is not afflicted with agony.
He whom the Guru gives God's Name,
is saved from the mammon fire.
O Lord show mercy unto Nanak,
that God's Name may abide within his mind and body.
Gauri 5th Guru.
With thy tongue repeat the One Name,
here it shall grant thee comfort and great joy and hereafter it shall be of avail into thy soul and keep its company. Pause.
Thy ailment of ego shall be eradicated.
By Guru's grace thou shalt enjoy secular and spiritual sovereignty.
The person who has tasted God's elixir,
his desire is slaked.
He who has obtained the treasure of peace of God,
goes not anywhere else again.
Whom the Guru gives the Name of Lord God,
O Nanak! his fear is removed.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Pain afflicts him who forgets the Lord's Name.
They who remember God by joining the society of Saints are an ocean of excellences. Pause.
Who by Guru's grace has divine understanding within his mind,
on his palm of hand are the nine treasures and supernatural powers.
He who knows Lord God as his Master with him,
there is no paucity of anything for him.
He who realises the Creator,
enjoys all the comforts and pleasures.
Says Nanak the distress departs in the company of him,
in whose heart-home God's wealth is treasured up.
Gauri 5th Guru.
O mortal great is thy pride from such as humble origin.
Thou art not to stay however much thou mayest grasp the world. Pause.
What is forbidden by the Vedas and Saints with that O mortal thou bearest love.
As the game of gamble keeps attached to itself even the loser gambler so do the sense-passion conquer and hold thee in bondage.
One who is completely potent to empty and to fill thou art devoid of the love of His lotus feet.
The Treasure of Mercy has given me Nanak the Society of Saints by which I am saved.
Gauri 5th Guru.
I am an attendant of my Master.
I eat what is given to me in charity by the Lord. Pause.
Such is my Husband O men.
In a moment He creates and embellishes.
I do the work which pleases my Lord.
I sing the songs of Lord's praise and His wonderous plays.
I have sought the protection of Lord's Minister (the Guru).
By seeing him my mind has grown fortitude.
One Lord's refuge and One's support (Nanak) seeks,
Slave Nanak is engaged in God's service alone.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Is there such a one who may shatter his ego,
and from this sweet mammon turn away this soul of him? Pause.
Man has become spiritually ignorant and seeks that what exists not.
The night is dark and gloomy. What is the way by which morning may dawn for him?
Wandering and roaming about I have grown weary. Adopting various ways I have searched the Lord.
Says Nanak, the Lord has shown mercy unto me and I have gained the treasure of Saints Society.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The Lord is the Desire-fulfilling Gem and Embodiment of Mercy. Pause.
The Lofty Lord is merciful to the meek, by whose meditation peace is procured.
The knowledge of the Immortal Lord is beyond comprehension. By hearing His praise millions of sins are effaced.
O Master the Treasure of benevolence show mercy, unto Nanak that he may repeat the Lord God's Name.
Gauri Purbi 5th Guru.
O my soul in Lord's refuge peace is attained.
The day when the Giver of life and solace is forgotten that day passes in vain. Pause.
Thou hast come as guest of one night, yet thou hast extended the hope of living for many ages.
Houses, mansions and riches whatever is seen is like the shade of a tree.
My body, my entire wealth, gardens and property all shall pass away.
Thou hast forgotten Lord the Giver In an instant these things shall belong to else one.
Thou takest bath and puttest on white clothes and perfumest thyself with otto of sandal.
Thou rememberest not the Fearless the Formless Lord. Thy bath is like the elephant's bathing.
When God becomes merciful He introduces thee to the True Guru, then all peace abides in God's Name.
Slave Nanak chants God's glories. The Guru has unlocked his fetters and he is emancipated.
Gauri Purbi 5th Guru.
My mind ever ponder thou on the Great God incarnate Guru.
The invaluable birth the Guru has made fruitful unto his sight, I am a sacrifice. Pause.
As many breaths and morsels dost thou take, O may soul, so many times dost thou sing Lord's praise.
When my True Guru becomes merciful, then alone this understanding and intellect is obtained.
By taking the Name, O my soul, thou shall be released from the bondage of the Death's courier, and obtain the comfort of all the comforts.
By serving the beneficent Lord, the True Guru, the heart desired boons are obtained.
My mind, the Name of the Creator is thy beloved friend and son, and it shall go with thee.
Perform thou the service of thy True Guru. From the Guru, the Name is received in the lap.
When, my Master, the kind Guru, showed mercy unto me, all my anxieties did end.
Nanak has obtained peace by singing the praises of God, and all his sufferings have ceased.
Measure Gauri 5th Guru.
There is but One God. Through the grace of the True Guru He is obtained.
The thirst (desire) of only a few is quenched (stilled). Pause.
Man amasses millions and lacs of millions but restrains not his mind, he longs for more and more.
He possesses beautiful ladies of so many Kinds, but still he commits adultery in other's houses. Between bad and good he distinguishes not.
Caused to wader by several bonds of mammon, he wanders about, and sings not the praises of the Treasure of excellences. His mind is engrossed in evil deeds.
He, unto whom Lord shows mercy, remains dead in life, and joining the Society of Saints, crosses the sea of mammon. Nanak, that man is exonerated in God's court.
Gauri 5th Guru.
God is the essence of everything. Pause.
Some practice science of yoga, some indulgence, some Divine Knowledge, and some meditation. Some like to be staff bearer hermits.
Some love lip repetition, some penance, some worship, burnt offerings and daily rites. Some like a wandering existence.
Some love the shore, some the water and some the study of Vedas. To Nanak, the devotional service of God is dear.
Gauri 5th Guru.
To sing the praise of the Lord is my treasure. Pause.
Thou art my delight, Thou my praise, Thou my beauty and Thou my love. Thou, O Lord, art my hope and shelter.
Thou art my pride, Thou art my wealth, Thou art my honour and Thou art my very life. The Guru has united me with Thee, from whom I had parted.
Thou art in home, Thou in forest, Thou in village, and Thou in wilderness. Near, how near art Thou, O Lord.
Gauri 5th Guru.
I am intoxicated, intoxicated with God's love. Pause.
That (love wine) I drink and with that I am inebriated. The Guru has given me that as alms. With that my soul is imbued.
That Lord is my furnace. That my cooling plaster. That my cup, and That my longing.
I make merry with the Lord, and play in bliss. Ended is my round, and I am blended with Him. With Guru's hymns, Nanak is pierced.
Measure Gauri Malwa. 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the favour of the True Guru, He is known.
Repeat, repeat thou, O friend the Name of God. Hereafter, thou shalt tread the arduous and dreadful path. Pause.
Serve, serve and, ever serve the Lord. Death hangs over thy head.
Perform thou the service of the Saints. O like this the Death's noose is cut.
In the ego of performing burnt offerings, sacrificial feasts, and pilgrimages, the sins multiply.
Man becomes subjects to hell and heaven, both, and is born again and again.
The realm of Shiva and the realms of Brahma and Indra no place is ever stable.
Without God's service, there is no peace. Becoming the worshipper of mammon, man continues coming and going.
As the Guru did instruct me, so have I proclaimed.
Says the hearken O Man sing the praise of God, and thou art emancipated.
Measure Gauri Mala. 5th Guru.
There is but One God, By the favour of the True Guru, He is known.
O adopting a child's mind I have attained peace.
By meeting the Guru joy and sorrow profit and loss birth and death pain and pleasure have become alike to my mind. Pause.
So long as I planned and contrived something till then I remained brimful with anxieties.
When I met the kind Perfect Guru, I easily, obtained bliss then.
The more the deeds, I did through cleverness, the more the fetters I was loaded with.
When the Saint (Guru) placed his hand on my forehead, then was I emancipated.
As long as I asserted "This is mine, this is mine ", till then I was surrounded by wickedness.
When I dedicated my mind, body and intellect to the Lord, I slept in peace, then.
As long as I walked along carrying bundle of mammon, till then, I continued to pay the fine.
When I, Nanak threw away the bundle, I met the Perfect Guru, and was rendered fearless then.
Gauri Mala 5th Guru.
O my friend my desires I have eschewed and renounced.
By meeting the Guru, I have left and forsaken them.
I have obtained all the comforts, joys, rejoicing and relishes by obeying world-Lord's will. Pause.
For me, honour and dishonour both are alike. My forehead I have placed on Guru's feet.
Wealth pleases, and calamity discomforts me not, for I have embraced love for the Lord.
The One Lord abides in home, and is seen in wilderness as well.
The saint has shed my doubt and I have become fearless. The Omniscient Lord is fully filling all.
Whatever work the Creator does, seems not unpleasant to my mind.
By the grace of the congregation of the righteous and the Saints my sleeping soul has awakened.
Serf Nanak has sought Thy support, and entered Thine sanctuary.
In the love of Name, Nanak enjoys supreme bliss, and pain touches him not again.
Gauri Mala 5th Guru.
I have found, found within my mind, my gem-like Beloved.
My body is rendered cool, my soul is rendered cool and I am absorbed in the Word of the True Guru. Pause.
My hunger has departed, my desires have all disappeared, and my entire anxiety is over.
The Perfect Guru has placed his hand on my forehead, and with the conquest of my mind I have conquered the whole world.
Sated and satiated, I remain within my mind, and now, I waver not.
An inexhaustible treasure, the True Guru has given me. It suffers no paucity, not gets emptied.
Hear a wonderful thing, O brother, the Guru has imparted unto me such an understanding,
that when, throwing off the curtain, I met my Lord, I forgot to be jealous of others.
This is a wonder which cannot be described. He alone realises who quaffs it.
Says Nanak, the Truth is revealed unto me. Taking the Name wealth from the Guru. I have enshrined it in my heart.
Gauri Mala 5th Guru.
One is saved in the refuge of Lord, the King.
All other people, holding worldly courts, fall flat on the ground. Pause.
The great men after the study of Shastras, Simiritis and Vedas have said,
that without God's meditation there is no emancipation, nor has any one attained peace.
Man may amass the wealth of the three worlds, but his waves of avarice slake not.
Without God's Meditation, where can stableness be obtained, and the mortal ever wanders about?
Man engages in various fascinating recreations, but his desires are not sated.
He ever burns, and is never quenched. Without Lord's Name all the things are vain.
Repeat thou the Name of God, O my friend. This is the essence of perfect happiness.
In the society of pious persons, end birth and death, and Nanak becomes the dust of God's slaves.
Gauri Mala 5th Guru.
Who can make me understand this state?
If one be the doer, then alone he can explain. Pause.
In ignorance this man does everything. But he performs not meditation and arduous service whatever.
In desire, he courses this mind of his in ten directions. By what deeds is the mind restrained?
Man says, "I am the master of my mind, body, wealth, and land. I am theirs and they are mine".
In doubt and worldly attachment, he sees nothing. With these tethers his feet are loaded.
What work did this man do then, when he was not in being?
When the immaculate and Formless Lord was all alone, all the things, then he did do himself.
He who has fashioned this world, Himself knows his doings.
Says Nanak, the Lord Himself is the Doer of everything. The True Guru has dispelled my doubt.
Gauri Mala 5th Guru.
Without remembering God, all other deeds are vain.
The performance of lip recitation, penance, self-mortification, and other rites, all this is plundered near at hand at hand. Pause.
He, who abides in fasting, daily ceremonies and austerities, obtains not even a shell for them.
Hereafter, the way is different, O brother. These are of no avail there.
He, who bathes at places of pilgrimage and wanders over the earth, finds no place of rest, hereafter.
There, this procedure avails not. By this, he simply pleases people, thereby.
By reciting the four Vedas from memory, man attains not Lord's presence, hereafter.
He, who understands not the one Pure Name, prates all nonsense.
Nanak expresses this opinion. He, who practises it becomes a swimmer of the sea of life.
Server the Guru, meditate on the Lord's Name, and dismiss the ego from thy mind.
Gauri Mala 5th Guru.
O my Lord God, the Mammon's Spouse, I repeat Thy Name with my mouth.
Of myself, I cannot do anything, O Lord. As Thou keepest me, so do I live. Pause.
What can the man do, what is he capable of doing, and what is in the hand of this poor creature?
O my Perfect Master, he attaches to that what Thou attachest him with.
Take pity on me, O the Bestower of all, and cause love for Thine Being alone.
Nanak makes supplication before God, that He may cause him to remember His Name.
Rag Gauri Majh 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the favour of the True Guru he is obtained.
O Venerable Sovereign Lord, Merciful to the meek, and waist cord-wearer,
myriads of people, thou hast engaged in the performance of Thine service.
Thou art the lover of Thine devotees. This daily function Thou hast taken upon Thyself.
Thou, O Lord, fillest all the places.
How shall I see my Beloved What is that way of life?
Become the hand-maid of Lord's saints, and serve their feet.
This soul I devote, and am a sacrifice, sacrifice unto them.
Bowing very low, I fall at the feet of that Lord.
The Pandit studies books and Vedas,
Becoming a renouncer, some one bathes at shrines.
Someone sings songs and melodious tunes.
But I meditate on the Name of Fearless Lord.
Unto me, my Master has become merciful.
By repairing to Guru's feet, I a sinner, am rendered pure.
Dispelling my doubt and dread the Guru has made me enmity-free.
The Guru has fulfilled my mind's desire.
He, who has obtained the Name, is wealthy.
Illustrious is he, who has meditated on his Lord.
Sublime are all the deeds of him, who joins the society of Saints.
O Nanak, the Lord's slave gets absorbed in Him.
Gauri 5th Guru Majh.
Come into my home. O my Beloved Lord.
Night and day, with every breath, I meditate on Thee.
O Saints, convey my this message to God, I fall at Thine feet.
Without Thee, how can I be saved?
In Thine company, I enjoy happiness.
Thou art in forest, vegetation and the three worlds Thou givest peace and supreme bliss.
With Thee my bridal bed looks beauteous, and this soul of mine blooms.
By seeing Thine sight I obtain this comfort.
I wash Thine feet and ever perform Thy service.
My Bright spouse I perform Thy worship and make flower offering and obeisance unto Thee,
I am a hand maiden of Thine slaves and I meditate upon Thy Name.
Repeat O Saints this my supplication to my Master.
My desire is fulfilled and my soul and body are reverdured.
By holding Lord's vision all my agonies are dispelled.
By constantly repeating the Name of Lord God I have been saved.
Nanak has endured this unendurable celestial beatitude.
Gauri Majh 5th Guru.
Hear hear O my intimate Friend, Thou art sweet unto my mind.
My soul and body are Thine This life too is a sacrifice unto Thee.
May I not forget Thee, O Lord. Thou art the mainstay of my life.
For ever, I have taken to Thine sanctuary.
On meeting whom my soul is revived by Guru's grace, O brother,
that Lord God I have obtained.
All the things belong to the Lord and of the Lord are all the places.
Unto my Lord., I am, ever, a sacrifice.
The very lucky one meditates this name treasure.
He enshrines affection for the Name of the one Immaculate Lord.
On obtaining the Perfect Guru, all the agonies are annulled.
The whole day long I sing the praises of the Lord.
Wealth of jewels is Thy Name, O Master.
Thou art the True Banker. Thy devotee is thine peddler.
True is the Trade of him who has the capital of God's wealth.
Slave Nanak, is, ever, a sacrifice unto the Lord.
Rag Gauri Majh 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's favour He is obtained.
Great pride I take in Thee, O Creator. Thou art the place of my great pride.
Through Thy might I abide in peace. The True Name is mark on me. Pause.
Man knows and hears everything but keeps mum (careless).
Bewitched by the worldly valuables he never regains consciousness.
The riddles and hints are given. The mortal sees them with his eyes.
One, who is foolish and greedy, never hearkens to what is said to him.
Why to count one, two, of four, the entire world is defrauded by the same worldly Pleasures.
There is hardly any lover of God's Name, and rare is the place that is left in bloom.
Lord's devoted salves look beauteous in the true Court. Day and night they make merry.
They are imbued with Lord's love. Serf Nanak is a sacrifice unto them.
Gauri 5th Guru Majh.
The Destroyer of sorrow is Thy Name, O Lord, the Destroyer of sorrow is Thy Name.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, visualise over the Divine comprehension imparted by the Perfect True Guru. Pause.
The heart wherein the Supreme Lord abides, that is the beautiful place.
Death's courier draws not near him, who with his tongue chants God's glories.
I understand not the worth of remaining awake in Lord's service nor have I felt the sublimity of Him meditation.
O my inaccessible and Incomprehensible Lord, the Life of the world, Thou art my main-stay.
When the Lord of world becomes merciful, sorrow and affliction hasten away.
Even the hot wind does not touch the man, when the True Guru himself shields him.
The Guru is the Omnipresent Lord, the Guru the Merciful Master and Guru the True Creator.
On Guru being mightily pleased I have attained everything. Servant Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto the Guru.
Gauri Majh 5th Guru.
Lord God, All pervading is the Lord God.
By remembering Him, the affairs are adjusted. Pause.
By repeating the Name of the World Lord, the mouth Becomes Pure.
He, who recites to me God's praise is my brother and friend.
In whom are all the valuables, all the gifts, and all the virtues,
why should we forget that World-Lord from mind, by remembering whom the miseries depart.
Think of God, being attached with whose skirt, man loves and crosses the terrible ocean.
By meeting the Society of Saints, the mortal is saved, and his face sparkles in Lord's court.
The praise of the World Cherisher is the essence of life. and the capital of the holy persons.
Nanak is saved by remembering Lord's Name, and gets acclamation in the True court.
Gauri Majh 5th Guru.
Sing thou the sweet praises of God, O my soul, sing thou the sweet praises of God.
Imbrued with the True Lord, the placeless gets a place. Pause.
All other relishes are insipid, with them the body and soul are rendered tasteless,
Cursed is his life and reputation, who acts without remembering Lord.
By grasping the Saints' skirt this world ocean is crossed.
Meditate on the Supreme Lord. and all thy family shall he saved.
He is an intimate, a kinsman, and a good friend of mine, who establishes God's Name within my mind.
He washes off all my demerits, and does me selfless beneficence.
Wealth, treasure and home are bur ruins. God's Feet are the only treasure.
Mumper Nanak is standing at Thy door, O Lord and asks for Thee as his alms.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's favour He is obtained.
Rag Gauri 9th Guru.
O Saints shed your mental pride.
Lust, wrath, and the society of evil persons from them do thou run away day and night. Pause.
He, who recognises both weal and woe and honour and dishonour as the same,
and he who remains aloof from joy and sorrow he realises the real thing in the world.
In should renounce both praising and blaming others and search for the dignity of salvation.
O Serf Nanak this is a difficult game only a few know it through the Guru.
Gauri 9th Guru.
O good people, the Pervading God has made the creation.
Some one dies another thinks he is ever stable. This is a wonder which cannot be understood. Pause.
The mortal is in the power of lust, wrath, and worldly love and has forgotten the personality of God.
The body which like the night dream is unreal, the man deems as real.
Whatever is seen, that all shall vanish, like the shadow of cloud.
O Slave Nanak, he who knows the world to be unreal abides under Lord's protection.
Gauri 9th Guru.
The mortal enshrines not God's praise in his mind.
Day and night he remains engrossed in mammon. Tell me how can he sing God's glories? Pause.
In this way he binds himself to children, friends, worldliness and egoism.
Like deer's delusion this world is false, yet on beholding that the mortal runs after it.
The Lord is the cause of earthly comforts, and salvation, Him, the fool forgets.
O servant Nanak, amongst millions there is hardly any mortal, who attains to Lord's meditation.
Gauri 9th Guru.
O Saints, this mind cannot be restrained.
The fickle avarice abides with it. Therefore it remains not stable. Pause.
The violent rage is within the heart, which causes all sense to be forgotten.
This wrath has snatched away the jewel of Divine knowledge of all. Nothing can with-stand it.
The yogis making all the efforts have failed. The virtuous singing God's eulogies have got tired.
When God becomes merciful, O slave Nanak, then, every, contrivance comes to bear fruit.
Gauri 9th Guru.
O Saints, sing the praises of the World-Master.
You have obtained the invaluable human life. Why waste it away in vain? Pause.
God is the Purifier of sinners and the relation of the meek. Enter thou unto His Sanctuary.
What for do you forget Him, by remembering who, elephant's fear was removed.
Lay aside pride, temporal love worldly valuables and, then, apply your mind to Lord's meditation.
Says Nanak this is the way to salvation. Become thou the followers of the Guru and attain it.
Gauri 9th Guru.
O Mother Let some one instruct his erring mind
Man hears the Vedas, the Puranas and the ways of pious persons. Yet, he sings not God's praises even for an instant. Pause.
Having obtained the scarcely obtainable human body, he passes his life in vain.
The love of mammon is very agonising forest, yet with that the man conceives affection.
Within and without the Master ever accompanies the mortal yet with Him he contracts not love.
Nanak deem him as delivered within whose heart the Omnipresent Lord is contained.
Gauri 9th Guru.
O Saints, in Lord's asylum there is rest.
The advantage of studying Vedas, and Puranas is this that the mortal may meditate on God's Name. Pause.
Avarice, temporal attachment, riches, egoism, service of evil,
and weal and woe touch not whome, that person is an embodiment of the Luminous Lord.
Heaven and Hell, ambrosia and poison and gold and price, all these are alike to him.
He whom, praise and slander, greed and appeasement and also attachment and detachment are the same,
also he whom the pain and pleasure blind not, him do thou recognise as the all-wise.
Nanak do thou deem him emancipated who is the mortal of this type.
Gauri 9th Guru.
O man, why hast thou become crazy?
Thou knowest not that by day and night thy6 age goes on decreasing and with covetousness thou art rendered paltry. Pause
That body, and the beautiful home and wife, which thou deemest as thy own,
in these nothing is thine. see and reflect carefully.
Thou hast lost thy precious human life, and hast not known the way of the World master.
Even for an instant thou hast not been absorbed with (in 0 Lord's Feet. thy life has passed away in vain.
Says Nanak, that man is happy who sing Lord's name and praises.
All the rest of people are bewitched by mammon. they obtain not the fearless dignity.
Gauri 9th Guru.
O ignorant man, dread thou the sin.
Who is compassionate to the poor, and the destroyer of all dread, enter thou His sanctuary. Pause.
Within thy mind place thou the name of Him, whose praise, the Vedas and Puranas sing.
Pure is the Name of God in the world. By repeating and remembering it, thou shalt wash off all thy sins.
O man, thou shalt not, again, attain the human body. Make some effort for thy deliverance.
Says Nanak, sing thou the praise of the Embodiment of compassion, and cross the terrible world-ocean.
Rag Gauri Ashtpadian. 1st Guru Gauri Guareri.
There is but One God. true is His Name and Creative Him personality. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
The (nine) treasure and (eighteen) miracles lie in the meditation of the Immaculate Name.
Destroying the poison of mammon one beholds the Perfect One pervading everywhere.
By abiding in the Pure Lord, I am rid of the three qualities.
The Guru's instruction is of avail unto my soul.
By uttering Lord's Name in this way, my soul is propitiated.
The collyrium of Divine comprehension, I have recognised through Guru's gospel. Pause.
I, now, enjoy the one celestial bliss and am blended with the Lord.
Through the Immaculate Gurbani, my doubt is removed.
Instead of the red dye of mammon, I have acquired the scarlet colour of God's Name.
When the Lord casts Him merciful glance, the poison of evil is destroyed.
When I turned away from the world, and became dead in life, I got (spiritually) awakened.
By repeating the Name, my soul got attached with the Lord.
Eschewing and casting away the mammon's poison, I have amassed Lord's Nectar.
By abiding in Lord's love my death's fear has fled.
My secular savours, strives and ego have ended,
and by the order of the Infinite Lord, my mind is imbued with God.
My actions of shame from people have left.
When the Lord cast His gracious glance on me, I enshrined celestial solace within my mind.
Without Thee, I see no friend of mine.
Whom else should I serve, and whom should offer my soul?
Whom should I ask, and no whose feet should I fall?
By whose instruction can I remain absorbed in Lord's Love.
the Guru serve, and on Guru's feet do I fall.
I meditate on God and am absorbed in His Name.
Lord's love is for me instruction, Divine discourse and fare.
Uniting with Lord's command I have entered my own Home.
With the extinction of ego the soul attains peace, and meditation.
The Divine light has dawned and my soul has merged in the supreme Light.
The eternal writ cannot be erased, and I have received the standard of Lord's Name.
I have deemed the Maker God, to be the Creator and Creation.
By himself, man is neither learned, clever, of wise,
nor is he strayed from the path, nor infatuated by superstition.
I engage not in idle talk but recognise God's will.
By Guru's instruction, Nanak is absorbed in the Lord.
Gauri Guareri, 1st Guru.
The mind is an elephant in the body forest.
The Guru is the goad that makes the mark of the True Name on the elephant,
that it obtains honour in the King's Court.
Through cleverness, (the Master) cannot be known.
Without conquering (the mind), how can Lord's worth be appraised? Pause.
In the house is ambrosia, which the thieves are taking away
No one says "No", unto them.
If man guards the ambrosia, God himself Grants him greatness.
Billions and countless billions of desire-fires are in the one mind seat,
and those are quenched with the water of Divine Knowledge, imparted By the Guru.
By offering my soul, I have attained the Divine Knowledge and now, I happily sing Lord's praises.
As is the Lord within home, so is He without.
How can I describe Him by sitting in a cave.
Likewise is the Fearless Lord in the oceans and mountains.
Say, who can kill him, who is already dead?
What dread to him, and which man, can frighten the dauntless one?
He recognises the Lord in the three worlds.
He, who says, merely describes a saying.
He, who really understands, realises the Lord easily.
By seeing and reflecting over reality, my soul is reconciled to God.
Celebrity beauty and salvation, are in one Name.
In that very Name, the Pure One remains permeated.
The Lord abides in the Name, His own home and His own place.
Praise Him many sages in Love.
By enshrining the True Name, in the mind their body and soul are rendered pure.
Nanak, meditate thou, everyday, on the Lord.
Gauri Guareri 1st Guru.
The mind dies not so the work gets not accomplished.
The mind is in the power of evil passions, evil intent, and duality.
Through the Guru, the soul is sated and becomes one with God.
The Absolute Lord is under the sway of merits.
He, who effaces his self conceit, reflects on the Lord. Pause.
The misled soul thinks of many evils.
When the soul falters, the weight of wickedness befalls the head.
When the soul is propitiated, it realises but one God.
The erring mind enters the abode of sin.
Entangled in lust, it remains not steady.
O mortal, lovingly repeat God's Name with thy tongue.
In the great anxiety of possessing elephants, horses, gold, sons and wife,
the mortal loses the game and departs.
In the game of chess, his chessman reaches not the destination.
Man amasses wealth, therewith evil springs,
and weal and woe remain standing at his door.
By heartily remembering the Enemy of ego, celestial bliss is easily procured.
When the Lord is in mercy, He unites man in His union, then.
He gathers merits and through Guru's instruction burns his demerits,
and through the Guru obtains the Name-wealth.
Without God's Name all abides in misery.
The abode of mammon is within the mind of the stupid apostate.
By virtue of the pre-scribed destiny, man obtains Divine Knowledge from the Guru.
the restless mind repeatedly runs after unstable valuable.
The True and Pure Lord likes not filth.
Nanak, The pious person sing the praise of God.
Gauri Guareri 1st Guru.
Peace is not obtained by taking pride.
False is mind's will. are all ruined.
They, who the duality, are all ruined.
The mortal does that what is pre-ordained.
I have seen the world to be such a gambler,
that forgetting God's Name, all ask for peace. Pause.
If the unseen Lord be seen, then alone can He be described.
Without seeing vain is His description.
Through the Guru, the Lord is, easily, discerned.
Fix thy attention on one Lord's service and affection.
By asking for comfort, one receives immense discomfort.
All the mortals weave a wreath of sins.
O false man, without one Lord, there is no deliverance.
That Creator beholds the creation, created by Him.
God's Name quenches the fire of desire.
Then duality, and doubt, automatically, cease.
By Guru's instruction the Name abides in the mind.
Through True Word, man sings God's praise.
The True Lord abides within the body of him, who, through the Guru, enshrines Love for Him.
Without the Name one attains not one's own place.
The Beloved Monarch is dedicated to love.
If the Lord shows mercy, then does the man understand His Name.
The love of worldly valuables is all entanglement.
An apostate is filthy, condemned and dreadful.
By the service of the True Guru, the involvement is ended.
By the Name-nectar, man, ever abide with (in) peace.
Through the Guru, the mortal understands the One Lord, and enshrines love for Him.
He dwells in his own home and merge in the True Lord.
His coming and going come to an end.
From the Perfect Guru, this understanding is obtained.
By saying the description his limit cannot be known.
I have consulted the Guru and seen, There is no other door but His.
Pain and pleasure are in His Order and Will.
Says meek Nanak, embrace thou, O man, love for the Lord,
Gauri, 1st Guru.
Other's love and wealth abide in the mind of the people of the world.
They are devastated by lust, wrath and ego.
Whom should I call the second when there is none else?
Amongst all is contained that One Pure Lord. Pause.
The second is the evil-intellect, which speaks of the other.
Comes goes and dies, he who harbors another's love.
Over the earth and the sky, I see not another.
Among all the women and men, Lord's Light permeates.
In the Sun, the Moon, and the lamps, I perceive Lord's Light.
Amidst all is my Ever-young Beloved.
Showing his benediction, the Guru attuned my mind to the Lord.
The True Guru has caused me to understand the One Master.
The pious person Know the Pure One alone.
Stilling his worldly attachment, he realises the Lord.
Lord's Will alone is prevalent in all the worlds.
From the One Lord all are born.
The routes are two, but know that their Master is One.
Under Guru's instruction recognise His order.
The one who is contained in all the shapes, colours and hearts,
Says Nanak, I praise that One Lord.
Gauri 1st Guru.
If man does spiritual deeds, then alone, is he true.
What can the false man Know about the secret of salvation?
Such a man is yogi, who thinks of the way of union with God.
He slays the five fell enemies, and keeps clasped the True Lord to his heart. Pause.
He, within whose mind, God enshrines Truth,
realises the worth of the way of union with Him.
The One Lord he sees in the Sun, the moon, at home and in wilderness.
His rituals are drowned in the daily routine of singing the praises of God.
He dwells on the Name alone, and asks for the alms of nothing but God's Name.
In Divine understanding, meditation, and true way of life, he remains wakeful
In God's fear he remains absorbed, and never gets out of that fear.
He remains fixed up in Lord's love, who can appraise his worth?
The Lord dispels his doubt and unites him with Himself.
By the Guru's grace, he attains to the highest dignity.
The service of the Guru is to ponder over the word.
And to still one's ego, and to do pure deeds.
Worship, penance, self mortification, and reading of Purans,
are contained in putting faith in Lord, the Remotest of the remote, says Nanak.
Gauri 1st Guru.
To imbibe the spirit of forgiveness, is for me the fasting, good conduct and contentment.
So neither ailment nor death-pain harasses me.
I am emancipated, and am absorbed in the Lord, who has no form and features.
What fear can a yogi have,
when that Lord is amongst trees, plants and within and without the house. Pause.
The yogi meditates on the Fearless, and Pure Lord.
Night and day he remains awake, and embraces affection for the True Name.
Such a yogi is pleasing unto my mind.
The snare of death he burns with Lord's fire.
He sheds the fear of old age and death, and quells his ego.
He Himself swims across, and saves his ancestors too.
He, who serves the True Guru, becomes a yogi.
He who remains immersed in Lord's fear becomes fearless.
As is the one whom he serves, so does he himself become.
God's Name makes man pure and fearless.
The Lord makes the patornless the patron of all, I am a sacrifice unto Him.
By singing His praises, the man is not born again.
He, who knows One Lord, within and without,
and who by Guru's instruction realises his own self,
bears the mark of True Name in the Master court.
He, who dies of God's Name, abides in Lord's presence.
He comes and goes not, and his desire is stilled,
through Guru's gospel his heart lotus blossoms.
Who-so-ever is seen, he is grasped by hope, despair, l
lust, wrath, mammon, hunger and thirst.
Nanak, some rare world-forlorn of the world meets the Lord.
Gauri 1st Guru.
By meeting such a slave of the True Lord who has obtained Him,.
peace is procured, and pain is forgotten.
By seeing his sight, my understanding has become perfect.
The ablution at sixty eight places of pilgrimage is in the dust of his feet. Pause.
My eyes are contented with the constant affection of one God.
With superb elixir of Lord, my tongue is rendered pure.
True are mine doings and within my mind is Lord's service.
With the Inscrutable and Mysterious Master my soul is sated.
Where-so ever I see there I find the True Lord.
Without understanding Him, the false world quarrels.
When the Guru instructs, understanding is obtained.
Through the Guru, hardly any one recognises the Lord.
Show mercy, and save me, O my Saviour.
Without knowing the Master, the mortals have become beasts and devils.
The Guru has said, "there is not any other except the Lord".
Tell me, whom else should I see and of whom else should I perform worship?
For the sake of the Saints, the Lord has installed the three worlds.
He who comprehends his ownself comes to know the Reality.
Who, within his mind, enshrines the Truth, and hearty Divine love,
prays Nanak, I am a servant of His
Gauri 1st Guru.
Brahma indulged in ego, and he understood not the Lord.
Faced with the calamity of the loss of Vedas, he did repent.
Whoever remembers the Lord, his soul is propitiated.
So heinous is the pride in this world.
The Guru effaces the ego of him whom He meets. Pause.
Bal the King, in the pride of wealth,
and inflated with excessive load of pride performed gratuitous feasts.
Bereft of Guru's counsel, he had to go to the underworld.
Hari Chand gave alms and earned renown.
Without the Guru, he found not the limit of the inscrutable Lord.
The Lord Himself misleads and Himself imparts understanding.
Evil intellected Hernaksh committed wicked deeds.
The pervading Lord Master is the destroyer of pride.
The Lord showered His benediction and saved Prahlad.
foolish and unwise Ravana forgot the Lord.
Ceylon together with his head was plundered.
He indulged in ego, and was without Guru's love.
The Lord killed thousand armed Arjan, the demons Makh Kaitab, and buffalo like Mahkhaswa.
Seizing him, God tore up Harnaksh with nails.
The demons were slain without the practice of Lord's meditation.
The demons Jara Sandh and Kaljaman were destroyed.
Rakatbej and Kalnem, demons were annihilated.
Slaying the demons, the Lord saved the Saints.
Himself, the Lord, as the True Guru meditates on His Name.
Because of duality God slew the devils.
For their true devotion the Lord saved the Guru-wards.
Sunk in ego, Daryodha lost his honour.
He did not realise the Pervading Lord Creator.
He, who teases God's slave himself putrefies in pain.
Janmeja did not realise the Guru's word.
Lured by doubt, how could he find peace?
By forgetting the Lord, even for an instant man has to repent afterwards.
Kans, Kes and Chandur had no equal.
Without knowing the Omnipresent Lord, they lost their honour.
Sans the Lord of the Universe, none can save the mortal.
Without the Guru, self-conceit cannot be effaced.
By Guru's instruction, faith, composure, and God's Name are procured.
Nanak, by singing the praises of the Lord, the Name is obtained.
Gauri 1st Guru.
If my apple otto of aloe wood and sandal to my body limbs,
I may wear and carry on my body silk and silk clothes,
Without God's Name, where can I find peace?
What should I wear and in what dress should I show myself?
Without the World-Lord, how can I obtain comfort? Pause.
I may have rings in mine ears and a necklace of pearls around my neck.
I my have red coverlet, flowers and red powder.
Sans the Master of the Universe, Where can I search for happiness?
I my have beautiful lady with fascinating eyes.
She may make sixteen Kinds of decoration and render herself exceedingly lovely.
Without meditating on the World-Master one is ever distressed and bothered.
In his hearth and home and palace comfortable couch,
Day and night the flower-girls may scatter flowers thereon.
Without God's Name his body shall be miserable.
Excellent horses, fine elephants, lances, musical band,
armies, mace bearers, royal attendants and ostentations,
without the Lord of the world vain are these undertakings
I may be called a man of miracle and may summon riches, and super-natural powers,
For my head I may make a crown, a regal hat and a royal umbrella,
But without the Lord of the Universe, where can I find true happiness?
I may be styled a Lord, an emperor and a king,
I may arrogantly say "now and then" to others. But all this is a false display.
Without Guru's instruction the affair is not accomplished.
Egotism and egoism I have forgotten under Guru's teaching.
By Guru's instruction, within my mind, I have known God, the Killer of Mur, a demon.
Supplicates Nanak "O Master, seek I thine shelter".
Gauri 1st Guru.
He, who serves the One Lord knows not another.
He lays aside the bitter worldly strives.
By love and truth he meets the truest of the true.
such is the devoted slave of the all Pervading Lord.
He washes away his filth, and meets God, by celebrating his praise. Pause.
inverted is the heart lotus of the whole world.
the fire of evil intellect is burning the world.
He is saved, who gives his thought to the Guru's Word.
The bumble bee, the moth, the elephant, the fish,
and the deer suffer for their acts, and die.
Engrossed in desire they see not the Reality.
The lover of a woman thinks of lust.
Wrath ruins all the sinners.
By forgetting the Name, man loses his honour and sense.
An apostate's mind covets another's woman.
Around his neck is the halter and he is entangled in worldly strives.
The Guru-ward is delivered by singing God's praises.
As an unchaste woman, who gives her body to a stranger for the sake of lust or money,
and whose mind falls unto another's power,
is never satisfied without her spouse. (So is the man of duality).
The mortal reads and studies books, recites Simritis,
and reads and hears Vedas, Purans, and other compilations,
but without being imbued with God's elixir the mind greatly wavers.
As the pied cuckoo has affection and thirst for rain drops,
An the fish is delighted in water,
so is Nanak sated quaffing God's Nectar.
Gauri 1st Guru.
He who dies in obstinacy is not accepted,
even though he may wear religious garb or apply plenty of ashes to his body.
Forgetting the Name, he repents afterwards.
Worship thou the peace in thy mind.
By forgetting the Name thou salt endure Death's torture. Pause.
The intoxication of the essence of Sandal, aloe wood, camphor,
and worldly valuables removes man far away from the Supreme Dignity.
By forgetting the Name he becomes the falsest of all the false.
The lances bands throne and salutations of others,
increase the desire and the mortal is engrossed in lust.
Without soliciting God, His devotional service and the Name are not attained to.
Through argument and egotism, union with the Lord is not obtained.
By tendering his soul to the Lord, man obtains the comforting Name.
Through ignorance, the mortal is involved in another's love, which makes him miserable.
Without money wares cannot be had from a shop.
Without the boat, voyage across an ocean cannot be had.
Without serving the Guru, there is total loss.
Hail, I Hail! unto him, who shows the path,
Hail Hail unto him, who recites to me the Name.
Hail! hail! unto Him, who him who unites me with Lord's Union.
Hail! hail! to him to whom this soul belongs.
By Guru's instruction ponder over and quaff the Name Nectar.
The glory of the Name is bestowed according to Thine Will, O Lord.
Without the Name, how can I live O my mother?
Night and day I repeat the Name and remain under Thine protection, O my Master.
Nanak, imbued with the Name man obtains honour.
Gauri 1st Guru.
Indulging in egotism, one knows not the Lord, whatever religious grab he may wear.
Rare is the person, whose soul is satiated with Master's meditation through Guru's guidance.
By the practice of ego and self-hood the True Lord is not obtained.
When self-conceit departs the highest rank is attained. Pause.
The Monarchs take pride and undertake many expeditions.
By pride they are ruined and die to be born again.
Egotism is overcome by reflecting over the Guru's hymns.
He, who restrains his restive mind and slays his five evil passions,
and he in whose mind is the True Name arrives at Load's mansion.
Understanding the Sovereign he obtains the Supreme Dignity.
The Guru banishes the doubts of him whose deeds are true.
He fixes his attention on the Home of the Fearless One.
What does he gain who dies practising pride and self conceit?
He who meets the Perfect Guru puts an end to his contentions.
Whatever there is that is nothing in reality.
Obtaining the Divine comprehension from the Guru, I sing Lord's praises.
Pride binds man in bonds and makes him wander in transmigration.
Through Lord's meditation Nanak has obtained peace.
Gauri 1st Guru.
Firstly Barahma entered the house of (become subject to) Death.
Barahma entered the lotus, and searching the nether regions he found not the Lord's limit.
He accepted not Lord's order, and was led astray in doubt.
who-so-ever is created, him death destroys.
God has protected me, as I meditated on Guru's Word. Pause.
Mammon has deluded all gods and goddesses.
Death spares none without Guru's service.
That Lord is Imperishable, Unseen, and Inscrutable.
The emperors, chiefs, and kings shall remain not.
Forgetting the Name, they shall endure Death's torture.
My mainstay is the Name. As Thou keepest me, so do I abide O Lord.
The leaders and Kings, none has an abiding place.
The Bankers die after amassing wealth and money.
O God, grant me the riches of Thine Ambrosial Name.
Subjects, Lords, Headmen, and chieftains.
None is seen permanent in the world.
The irresistible Death, strikes the false mortals on the Head.
That Lord alone, the Truest of the true, is ever stable.
Who has fashioned and created, He shall destroy all.
When that Lord is known through the Guru, then alone, honour is obtained.
The Qazis, the Shaikhs, and Fakirs in religious garbs,
call themselves great, but through pride their bodies are in Pain.
Death spares them not without the support of the True Guru.
Death's trap is over man's tongue and eyes.
Death's is over ears, when he hears sensuous talk.
Without the Name, man is robbed day and night.
To those whose hearts are filled with God's true Name,
and who sing God's praises, the death cannot spy on them.
Nanak, the Guru-ward gets absorbed in the Lord.
Gauri 1st Guru.
He who tells the truth wherein there is not even an iota of falsehood,
and the Guru-ward walks according to the God's will,
he remains detached under True Lord's protection.
He abides in the True Home, and Death touches him not.
An apostate comes and goes, and suffers the pain of worldly love. Pause.
Quaff Nectar, and continue to utter the Ineffable Lord,
By sitting in your own home, you can attain the Home, of Bliss.
This bliss is said to have accrued to him who is imbued with God's elixir.
By adjusting life department in accordance with Guru's teaching, man becomes stable and staggers not.
By Guru's instruction, he instinctively repeat the True Name of God.
He drinks ambrosia, and by churning, separates the Reality.
Beholding the True Guru, I have received instruction from Him.
After offering my soul and body unto the Guru and I have thus searched my inner-self.
By understanding my own-self, I have come to realise the worth of salvation.
Pure Lord's Name is the excellent diet.
the pious person is the true light of the Infinite Lord.
Where so ever I see, there I find the One Lord.
He who remains blotless, and does only the true deeds,
obtains the supreme status, and serves the Feet of the Guru.
From the mind it self, his mind is sated, and his wandering in ego ceases.
In this way who and which have nor been saved by God?
God's praise has delivered His Saints and Devotees.
The Master I have found, and, now, I search not another.
The Guru has shown me the Invincible Lord in the True Mansion.
Immovable is this abode. It is not the reflection of mammon.
Through truthfulness contentment accrues and doubt is dispelled.
Within whose mind, He, the True Lord dwells,
In their association the mortal becomes holy.
Nanak, the True Name washes off the filth.
Gauri 1st Guru.
Whose soul is imbued with the Lord's Name,
at early dawn see the sight of him.
Meditates thou not on the Pervading God, this is thine ill-luck.
In every age, Beneficent is my Lord Master. Pause.
Under Guru's instruction, the perfect man meditates on the Lord.
In his mind the unstruck melodious bands play.
The persons who bear love to God and Lord's devotional service.
Them the Master mercifully preserves.
In whose heart that Lord God abides,
by seeing their sight peace is obtained.
Amongst all the beings, the One Lord is contained.
The proud perverse person, ultimately wanders in various births.
He alone understands the Lord who obtains the True Guru.
Stilling his ego, he receives the Guru's World.
How can the mortal know about the union of the low man with the high Lord?
By the Guru's grace, and through mind's appeasement the man meets with the Master's union.
I am sinner, without-merit O my Master, show goodness unto me.
When the Lord becomes merciful, slave Nanak is emancipated.
Sixteen Ashtpadian of Gauri Guareri.
Gauri Bairagan 1st Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
As a herdsman guards and keeps watch over his herd,
similarly God cherishes and protects man day and night, and enshrines peace in his mind.
Here and hereafter, protects me, O Beneficent Lord of the Poor.
Thine shelter do I seek Look in me with favour. Pause.
Wherever I look, there art Thou contained. Save me, Thou O Saviour.
Thou art the Giver, Enjoyer Thou art and Thou art the Mainstay of my life.
Without deliberating over Divine knowledge the mortal according to his actions, descends low or ascends high.
Without the praise of the World Lord, the darkness is not dispelled.
I have seen the World perishing through covetousness and egotism.
By Guru's service the Lord and the true gate of salvation I have obtained.
The mansion of the Infinite Lord is within mortal's own home heart, and that Lord is the remotest of the remote.
Without the Name, nothing is stable. By understanding the Master, happiness ensues.
What hast thou brought and what shalt thou take away when thou art entangles in Death's noose.?
Like a well-bucket firmly tied to the rope you are now in the sky, and now in the under-world.
If by virtue of Guru's instruction man forgets not the Name, He easily attains honour.
There is the Name, treasure within. but it is obtained by eradicating self-conceit.
If the Master, casts His Merciful Glance the mortal then sins in the lap of the Meritorious One.
The union, O Nanak breaks not and he earns the true profit.
Gauri 1st Guru.
If man understands the Lord, by Guru's favour then his account is settled.
He whose Name is the Pure One and who is contained in every heart is my Master.
Without Guru's instruction one is not emancipated. See and reflect upon this.
Though man may perform lacs of rituals yet without the Guru there is all darkness. Pause
What should we say to those who are blind and devoid of wisdom?
Without the Guru the way cannot be seen. How is then one to get along?
To the counterfeit one calls the genuine and the worth of genuine he knows not.
The blind man goes by the name of an assayer. Strange is this Dark-age.
The one who is slept he calls awake and one who is awake he says asleep.
The living one he says dead, and he weeps not for those who are really dead.
He who is coming he says is going and one who is gone he says to have come.
Man calls another's property has own and his own he likes not.
What is sweet, he calls bitter and the bitter he calls sweet.
One imbued with Lord's Love, he slanders. Such is what I have seen in the Dark-age.
Man serves the hand-maiden but the Master he sees not.
By churning the pool water, no butter comes out.
He who understands the meaning of this stale is my teacher.
O Nanak he who knows his own self is infinite and unrivalled.
By Himself, the Lord pervades ever-where and Himself He strays the mortals.
Through Guru's grace, man understands this that the Lord is contained amongst all.
Gauri Measure Guareri 3rd Guru, Ashtpadis.
There is but One God by the grace of the True Guru He is known.
Duality is the contamination of mind.
Infatuated by doubt man comes and goes.
Of the perverse person, defilement never departs,
So long as, under Guru's instruction he is not immersed in the Name of God. Pause.
The attachment of all the visible objects is all impurity.
Due to this the mortal dies and is reborn again and again.
Impurity is in fire, air and water.
Within all the food, which we eat, there is pollution.
Defilement is in man's actions as he performs not Lord's worship.
Imbued with God's Name, the soul is rendered pure.
By serving the True Guru the defilement goes,
thereby man dies not nor is he reborn nor dies death devour him.
Let some one see and study the Shashtras and Simirtis.
Without the Name none is emancipated.
In the four ages, the excellent thing is the Name and the meditation of the Word.
In the Dark-age only the Guru-ward is saved.
The True Lord dies not. He comes and goes not.
Nanak, by Guru's grace the mortal remains absorbed in the Name.
Gauri 3rd Guru.
Lord's service is the prop of Guru-ward's life.
The Venerable Lord, keep clasped to thy mind and soul.
Through the Guru, honour is obtained in the True Court.
O Scholar, read thou the Name of God, and eschew vice.
Through the Guru, cross thou the dreadful world-ocean. Pause.
Through the Guru ego goes from within.
Through the Guru, filth attaches not the mind.
Through the Guru the Name comes and abides within the mind.
By Guru's grace, truth becomes man's actions and religion.
By Guru's grace the mortal burns egotism and duality.
By Guru's grace one is imbued with the name and peace is obtained.
Instruct thy mind and understand that Lord.
Otherwise, however much, thou mayest preach to the people none would hear thee.
By Guru's grace obtain Lord's comprehension and thou shalt be ever, at peace.
An apostate is over-hypocritical and clever.
Whatever he does that becomes not acceptable.
He comes and goes, and finds no place of rest.
The way-ward performs rituals in great pride.
Like the heron the, ever, sits in trance.
When caught by the Death's myrmidon, he does regret then.
Sans serving the True Guru, salvation is not attained.
By Guru's favour, He, the Lord is met.
The Guru is the Giver, through the Four Ages.
God's Name is the caste, honour and glory of the True Sikhs if the Guru.
Mammon the daughter of Ocean they have beaten to death.
Nanak without the Name, false is all cleverness.
Gauri 3rd Guru.
Repeat thou, O brethren the religion of this age (God's Name)
The Perfect Guru, has imparted unto me all the understanding.
Here and hereafter God's Name is the mortal's succour.
Repeat thou the Lord Name and reflect thereon within thy mind.
By Guru's favour wash off thy filth. Pause.
Through controversies and contentions the Lord in not procured.
Through another's love, the soul and body are rendered insipid.
Through Guru's teaching enshrine affection for the True Lord.
This World is gone filthy with ego.
By daily bathing in holy waters egotism goes not.
Without meeting the Guru death distresses the man.
True is the man, who effaces his ego,
and by Guru's teaching slays the five demons.
He saves himself and saves all his generations.
The Actor has set up attachment of mammon as a play for the mortals.
The blind apostates remain clinging to it.
The Guru-wards remain detached and embrace affection for God.
The disguiser puts on various garbs.
Within him is desire and he walks about proudly.
His ownself he understands not and loses the game.
Putting on religious garbs some play clever.
Love of mammon and doubt have supremely misled them.
Without serving the Guru, they suffer immense pain.
They, who are imbued with God's Name, ever, remain detached.
Though householders they in their mind enshrine affection for the True Lord.
Nanak, very fortunate are they who serve the True Guru.
Gauri 3rd Guru.
Brahma is the founder of the study of Vedas.
From him emanated the gods, infested with worldly love and desire.
They wander in three qualities and abide not in their own home.
Causing me to meet the True Guru the Lord has saved me.
Night and day's devotional service and God's Name the Guru has implanted within me. Pause.
The compilations of Brahma involve men in the noose of three dispositions.
There in they read the eventful poems and the courier of Death strikes them on their head.
They understand not the Reality, and tie a bundle of straw.
Ignorance puts the way-ward man on the evil path.
He forgets God's Name and firmly grasps many rituals.
Due to duality, he is drowned in the terrible world-ocean.
Necessitous of wealth calls himself a Scholar.
Stained with sin, he suffers much sorrow.
Death's butcher's halter is round his neck and death ever torments him.
Death's Minister comes not near the Guru-wards.
Lord's Name burns their ego and duality.
Dyed with the Name, they sing God's praises.
Mammon is the hand-maid of God's devotees, and performs their service.
If man falls at their feet, then does he attain to Master's Mansion.
Ever, immaculate is he who merges in the Divine knowledge.
They who hear God's discourse, are seen wealthy in this World.
All make obeisance unto them and people night and day, adore them.
They automatically sing in their mind the praises of the True Lord.
The Perfect True Guru has preached his sermon,
wherewith the three moods are effaced and man's mind is attached with the fourth one.
Nanak, dispelling his pride he is merged with the Supreme Lord.
Gauri 3rd Guru.
Man reads Vedas compiled by Brahma and narrated strifes.
Within him is wrath, and he understands not his ownself.
If he recites Guru-bani then alone, he attains to the Lord.
Perform thou the service of the Guru death shall not devour thee then.
The apostates have been eaten up by another's love. Pause.
Through the Guru, are the sinful persons purified.
By Guru's instruction the soul is united with God.
By Guru's gospel, man is reformed and obtains my Master.
The Lord unites with Himself those, whom the True Guru wishes to unite.
They become pleasing to the mind of my True Master.
God's praise they automatically laud.
Without the true Guru the mortals are gone astray in doubt.
The blind perverse person ever eat poison.
They endure the rod of Death's Myrmidon and ever suffer pain.
If one enters God's sanctuary, death's Courier spits him not.
Stilling his ego, man comes to embrace love for the true One.
He ever, keeps his attention fixed on God, s Name.
The persons, who serve the true Guru, are blotless and pure.
By uniting their mind with Guru's mind they conquer the whole world.
In this way, thou shalt obtain happiness, O my friend.
He, who serve the True Guru, attains the fruit.
In his mind abides the Name, and pride departs from within him.
For him unbeaten strain of the Name re-sounds.
Who, and which have not been reclaimed by the True Guru, O my brother!
Reformed through Master's meditation they obtain honour in His Court.
Nanak, greatness lies in Lord's Name.
Gauri 3rd Guru.
He who reads works, narrating three modes, his doubt departs not.
His bonds are not broken, and he obtains not salvation.
The giver of emancipation is the True Guru, in this age.
Through the Guru, O mortal dispel thou thy doubt.
By enshrining affection for God, the celestial strain is manifested. Pause.
They, who abide in three disposition, are the subject of death.
they remember not the Name of the Creator.
They die and are re-born, over and over again.
Through the blind, ignorant Guru, doubt is not dispelled.
Leaving the source of all, the men are attached with duality.
One engrossed in sin in poisonous in evil deeds gets absorbed in sin.
Deeming riches to be the source of everything, mortals wander about.
In another's love they have forgotten the Venerable Lord.
He, on whom God casts His merciful glance, obtains the highest status,
He within whom is truth, distributes truth without too.
Truth remains not hidden, even though man may keep it hid.
the theologian, easily, comes to know it.
the Guru ward, remains fixed in the love of the True Lord.
Egotism and love of wealth. he burns with God's Name.
My true Lord, unites him in His union.
The beneficent True Guru preaches Lord's Name.
The wandering mind he controls restrain and stops.
From the Perfect Guru, the mortal receives the Divine understanding.
The Creator Himself has created the World and Himself shall destroy it.
Without Him there is no other second.
Nanak, through the Guru, only a few understand this.
Gauri 3rd Guru.
The priceless Name, one attains through the Guru.
He serves the Name and through the Name merges in the Lord.
The Nectar Name with his tongue he ever songs.
He unto whom God shows mercy, receives Lord's Elixir.
Night and day in thy mind dwell in the World Lord.
Through the Guru, obtain thou the highest state of beatitude. Pause.
Happiness becomes manifest within the mind of the pious persons,
who sing of the True Lord, the Treasure of excellences.
He ever becomes the solace of the slaves of Lord's slaves.
Within his home and family, he, ever remains detached.
Some rare Guru-ward becomes emancipated in life.
He alone attains the Supreme wealth.
Effacing the three dispositions he becomes pure.
He easily blends with Him the True Master.
Man rises above the love of earthly attachment and family,
when that True One abides within his mind.
Through the Guru the mind is pierced and held.
He who recognises his fiat understands the True Lord.
Thou art the Creator, I recognise none else.
Thee I serve and though Thee I earn honour.
If, he, the Lord, show mercy, I would laud Him.
In the entire world is the light of the Name Jewel.
To the Guru-ward, Gurbani tastes sweet.
His heart blooms and night and day his attention remains centered on it.
By God's Grace, the True Name is easily gained.
Through perfect good fortune the mortal attains to the True Guru.
Ego, I-am-ness, evil, wit, and distress depart,
when Lord's Name an ocean of merits, abides in the mind.
When through the Guru the Lord is remembered and his praise is sung,
by abiding His feet in the mind man's intellect awakens.
Whom God gives the Name, that man alone receives it.
They, who shed their self-conceit through the Guru, them the Lord unites with Himself.
Within their heart, they place the True Name.
Nanak, automatically, they are absorbed in the True Lord.
Gauri 3rd Guru.
By Lord's fear, the mind has been, easily reformed by the mind itself.
The mind is imbued with the Name, and attuned to Lord's Love.
By Lord's will, it abide in its own home.
By serving the True Guru pride departs and master.
and the Treasure of excellences is attained. Pause.
The mind is rendered desire-free when is entertains Lord's fear.
My Immaculate Master, is contained amongst all.
By Guru's grace, the mortal unites in Lord's union.
The servant of God's servant attains peace.
My Lord God, is obtained in this way.
By God's grace, man sings Lord's praises.
Accursed is the long life, wherein love for God's Name is not enshrined.
Accursed is the comfortable couch and the darkness is the love for a lady.
Fruitful is the birth of those who have the Name's support.
Woe unto, woe the home and family, because of which God's love is not embraced.
He alone is my friend, who sings the praise of that God.
Without God's Name, I have no other.
From the True Guru, I have obtained salvation and honour.
I have meditated on God's Name and am rid of all the agony.
By embracing affection with God's Name I have attained eternal bliss.
By meeting the Guru, I have obtained realisation of my body.
The fire of ego and desire is all quenched.
My wrath is effaced, and I have gripped tolerance.
The Lord Himself shows mercy and donated the Name.
Rare is the person, who, through the Guru, receives the Name Jewel.
Nanak, sings the praises of the Incomprehensible and Inscrutable God.
There is but One God by the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Measure Gauri Bairagan. 3rd Guru.
They who turn their face away from the True Guru appear to be unfaithful and evil.
They shall be bound and beaten night and day and this opportunity they shall not get again.
O Lord God, show mercy and deliver me.
Unite me with the society of Saints, O Master, that within my mind, I may recount the merits of Lord God. Pause.
Pleasing to God, are the devotees who walk according to the Will of the Supreme Guru.
Stilling their self-conceit they perform Lord's service and remain dead in life.
To whom belong the body and the life, His exalted service, the, mortal is enjoined to perform.
Why forsake Him in your mind? The Lord we ought to keep clasped to our heart.
Receiving the Name man obtains honour and by believing in the Name he is in peace.
From the True Guru, the Name is obtained. By Lord's grace, the Lord is gained.
They who turn their face away from the True Guru, continue wandering and become not stable.
The earth and the sky tolerate them not. Fallen in fortune they putrefy there.
By giving the intoxicating herb of worldly love, this World is led astray in doubt.
Mammon draws not near them, whom the True Guru has met.
They who serve the True Guru are beauteous. They cast off their filth of self-conceit.
They, who are imbued with the Name are pure. They walk according to True Guru's will.
My Lord God, Thou alone art the Giver and Thou Thyself forgivest and blendest the mortals with Thee.
Slave Nanak has sought Thine asylum. As Thou willest so do Thou deliverest him.
Gauri Measure Purbi 4th Guru, Karhale
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
O my camel-character stranger soul, how shalt thou meet God, thy Mother?
When I obtained the Guru, by perfect good luck, the Beloved came and embraced me.
My soul, make a determined effort and meditate on the Divine True Guru. Pause.
O my discreet wandering soul, remember thou the Name of Lord God.
Where an account is called for, God Himself shall release thee.
O my wandering soul, once thou wert very pure. The filth of ego has how came and attached to thee.
The Beloved Spouse is before thee in thy home, separating from Him thou sufferest strokes.
My darling soul, make an effort, and thoroughly seek out God within thy mind.
By no device can He be found, the Guru shall show thee God in thy heart.
My dear soul, launch an attack, and day and night enshrine love for God.
United by the Guru, when thou shalt meet God, thou shalt go home, and obtain the palace of love.
O my wandering soul, thou art my friend, abandon thou hypocrisy and avarice.
The hypocritical and the greedy are smitten. Death awards them punishment with its mace.
O my wandering soul, thou art my very life. Rid thou thyself of the filth of hypocrisy and superstition.
The Perfect Guru, is the tank of Divine Nectar. By meeting the society of Saints, the dirt is washed off.
O my dear soul, make an effort and listen only to the instruction of the Guru.
This love of mammon is widely diffused. Ultimately, nothing goes with the mortal.
O my wandering soul, my friend, take God's Name as thy viaticum and thus obtain honour.
Thou shalt have a robe of honour in God's court, and God Himself shall embrace thee.
O my wandering soul, he who obeys the Guru, performs Lord's service under Guru's instruction.
Make supplication before the Guru, O slave Nanak, and he shall unite thee with God.
Gauri 4th Guru.
O my reflective soul, make an effort, meditate and look carefully.
The forest-dwellers have grown weary of wandering in forests. By Guru's instruction see the Spouse within thy heart.
O my soul, make an assault, and remember the Guru-God. Pause.
O my wandering poor soul, the perverse are caught in a great net.
The pious person is emancipated by meditating on the Name of the Lord Master.
O dear soul, put in an earnest endeavour and seek the Society of Saints and the True Guru.
Attached with the congregation of saints, meditate thou on God, and the Lord Master shall go with thee.
O my very fortunate wandering soul, with the one gaze of the Lord, thou shalt be enraptured.
If God Himself delivers thee, thou shalt be delivered, Adore thou the True Guru's feet.
My darling soul, make an attempt and think of the Divine Light within thy body.
The Guru has shown me the nine treasures of the Name. This is the gift that the Merciful Master has given me.
O my mercurial mind, make thou an attempt and lay aside thy hideous cleverness.
Lord God's Name do thou meditate upon. At the last moment God shall deliver thee.
O my wandering soul, very fortunate shalt thou be, if thou takest care of the jewel of the Divine knowledge.
Holding the sword of Divine Knowledge of the Guru the destroyer of death in thy hand, slay thou the myrmidon of Death.
Within thee is the Named treasure, O my wandering mind. Thou wanderest abroad in doubt, searching for it.
When thou meetest the Perfect Divine Guru, thou shalt find with thee God, thou shalt find with thee God, the Friend.
Thou art engrossed in worldly revelments, O my wandering soul. Lord's love do thou, ever enshrine.
By service the Guru, and remembering the Name, God's colour never fadest.
We are birds, O my wandering soul, and the Immortal Lord God is the Tree.
The very lucky ones find the Tree, through the Guru. Meditate on the Name, thou, O slave Nanak.
Measure Gauri Guareri 5th Guru Ashtpadian.
There is but One God. True is His name and Creative His Personality. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
When this mortal harbours pride within his mind,
then he roams about as a lunatic and an estranger.
on that account, he beholds the pervading God in every heart.
on that account, he beholds the pervading God in every heart.
The Fruit of humility is naturally pleasant.
This gift my True Guru has given me. Pause.
When he deems others bad,
then all lay trap for him.
When he ceases to think in terms of mine and thine,
then none bears him enmity.
When he clings to "my own, my own",
then he has to face serious trouble.
When he recognises the Creator,
then he has no burning what-ever.
When this man entangles himself with worldly love,
he suffers transmigration and is for ever under death's ken.
When all the doubts are removed from him,
there remains no difference between him and the Supreme Lord.
From the moment, he recognises some difference,
since then he suffers pain, punishment and affliction.
From the moment, he knows but one Lord,
since then every thing occurs to him.
When he runs about for the sake of riches,
he is neither sated nor his thirst quenched.
When he runs away from it,
the goddess of wealth gets up and follows him.
By His grace, when the True Guru meets,
the lamp is lit in the mansion of man's heart.
When man realises what victory and defeat is,
then does he come to know the worth of this Home.
He, the one Lord does everything and cause everything to be done.
He Himself is wisdom, reflection and discrimination.
He is not distant. He is near and with all.
Celebrate the True God, O Nanak, with love.
Gauri 5th Guru.
By Guru's service, man is attached with the Name.
He alone receives the Name, who has good fortune record on his forehead.
He the Lord abides with his mind.
His soul and body become peaceful, and stable.
My soul sing such praises of the Lord,
which may avail thee here and hereafter. Pause.
By remembering whom fear and calamity depart,
and the wandering mind is held.
By remembering whom, trouble overtakes not again.
By remembering whom this ego flees.
By remembering whom the five passions are overcome.
By remembering whom Nectar is amassed in the heart.
By remembering whom this desire is quenched.
By remembering whom in God's Court the man is approved.
By remembering whom millions are effaced.
By remembering whom man becomes God's saint.
By remembering whom mind is rendered cool.
By remembering whom all the dirt is washed off.
By remembering whom, God the jewel is attained.
The man leaves not the Lord again and is reconciled to Him.
By remembering whom many acquire abode in heaven,
By remembering whom one easily dwells in peace.
By remembering whom this fire affects not.
By remembering whom this death stalks not.
By remembering whom thy brow shall become blotless.
By remembering whom all the distress is destroyed.
By remembering whom man faces no difficulty.
By remembering whom, One hears the celestial strain.
By remembering whom, this mortal comes to have pure repute.
By remembering whom, the heart lotus becomes upright.
The Guru has cast his benevolent glance on all those,
in whose mind God has given His Name.
They enjoy the incessant lauding of praises of the Lord as their food and dainty,
Says Nanak, who have the Perfect True Guru as their guide.
Gauri 5th Guru.
He who places Guru's teaching within his heart,
severs connection with the five passions,
and keeps under his control the ten (five sensory and five motor) organs.
Within his mind, the Divine Light shines.
He alone acquires such steadfastness,
on whom is the grace and mercy of that Lord. Pause.
With him a friend and a foe are alike.
Whatever he speaks all that is wisdom.
Whatever he hears, all that is God's Name.
Whatever he sees, in all that is Lord's realisation.
In peace he is awake and in peace sleeps.
What is naturally to happen, he is pleased with the happening of that.
In poise he weeps and in poise laughs.
In peace he remains silent and in place he repeats God's Name.
With natural ease he takes food and with natural ease he loves the Lord.
His screen of ignorance is all removed, automatically.
He easily meets the society of Saints.
Peacefully, he meets the Transcendent Lord, without hitch.
In equipoise he is in home, and in equipoise he remains detached.
His body's double minded-ness is easily destroyed.
Happiness dawns in the mind of him, who possesses the Divine Knowledge.
Him meets Lord, the Embodiment of Supreme Joy.
Instinctively he quaffs the Name Nectar.
Instinctively he gives alms to the needy beings.
In Lord's discourse his soul takes delight.
With him abides the Eternal Lord.
Easily he acquires fancy for the Eternal Abode.
Heavenly music, naturally plays for him.
The melodious sound of the bells within, automatically, embellishes him.
Within his home abides the Supreme Lord.
To whose lot, the write to meet the Lord has fallen.
He, easily, meets the Guru of the True faith.
He alone realises God, who is blessed with Divine Knowledge.
Servant Nanak is a sacrifice unto him.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Firstly, man issues from dwelling in the womb.
Afterwards he attaches himself to his sons, wife and family.
The dishes of many sorts and varied dresses,
shall assuredly pass away, O wretched man.
Which is the Place that never perishes?
What word is that by which evil intellect is removed? Pause.
In the realm of Inder, death is sure and certain.
The realm of Brahma is not to remain permanent.
The realm of Shiva shall do perish.
The mammon with three qualities and the demons shall vanish.
The mountain, trees, the earth, the sky and the stars,
the sun, the moon, wind, fire, and water,
the day, the night, the fasting and their differentiation,
the Shastras, the Simritis and the Vedas all shall pass away.
Places of pilgrimage, gods temples and books,
rosaries, frontal marks, the reflectives, the pure and the performers of burnt offerings;
loin clothes, prostration, provisions and revelments;
all these things and all the men shall pass away.
The castes, races, Musalmans and Hindus;
the beasts, birds, and sentient beings of various varieties;
The entire World and the creation which comes to view,
these all forms of existence shall perish.
By Lord's praise, His devotional service and the real Divine Knowledge,
man attains Eternal Bliss and immovable true seat.
There, in the Saints congregation, he lovingly sings God's praises.
There, he ever abides in the fearless city.
There is no fear, doubt, mourning and anxiety there.
No coming, going, and death is there.
There is for ever joy and theatre of spontaneous music there.
The devoted slaves of God abide there, and singing of Lord's praises is their sustenance.
Of the Supreme Lord, there is no end and limit.
Who can embrace His contemplation?
Says Nanak, he, to whom the Lord shows mercy,
is delivered through the guild of Saints, and attains to the Imperishable Abode.
Gauri 5th Guru.
He, who kills this, is a hero.
He, who kills it, is perfect.
He, who kills it, obtains glory.
He, who kills it is freed from suffering.
Rare is such a person, who kills and casts off his duality.
Killing it, he enjoys the union of the King. Pause.
He, who kills it, has no fear.
He, who kills it, is absorbed in the Name.
He, who kills it, has his desire quenched.
He, n who kills it, is approved in Lord's Court.
He, who kills it, becomes wealth.
He, who kills it, becomes worthy of honour.
He, who kills it, is rendered a celibate.
He, who kills it, attains to salvation.
The advent of him, who kills it, is of account.
He, who kills it, is stable and opulent.
He, who kills it, is indeed very fortunate.
He, who kills it, is wakeful, night and day.
He, who kills it, is emancipated in life.
He, who kills it, has pure of life.
He, who kills it, is a good divine
He, who kills it, is a the visualiser of the Lord.
Without killing this love of another, man becomes not acceptable,
even though he may perform millions of rituals; worship and austerities.
Without Killing it, one's being born ceases not.
Without killing it. man escapes not from death.
Without Killing it, one obtains not Divine comprehension.
Without Killing it, Impurity is not washed off.
Without Killing it, everything is defiled.
Without killing it everything is an entanglement.
Unto whom, the treasure of kindness becomes merciful,
he secures release and attains all perfection.
He, whose duality has been destroyed by the Guru,
says Nanak, is the Lord's contemplator.
Gauri 5th Guru.
When man attaches himself to God he then, finds in everybody.
When man attaches himself to God, he then has a stable mind.
He, who unites with God, is not engrossed in anxiety.
If one unites with God, then, is he emancipated.
O my soul, unite thyself with thy Lord.
Of no avail, is anything else to thee. Pause.
The big and great worldly people,
are of no avail, O ignorant man.
Though God's slave be accounted of lowly birth,
but in his association, thou shalt be saved in a trice.
Hearing of whose (God's) Name is equal to millions of ablutions.
Meditating on whom (Him) is equal to millions of worships.
To Hear God's Gurbani, is equal to millions of alms-giving.
To Know the Lord's way from the Guru, is equal; to millions of rewards.
Within thy mind, again and again, think upon God,
and thy love for mammon shall depart.
The Imperishable God is with thee.
My soul, get absorbed in the love of the Omnipresent Lord.
He in whose service the entire appetite departs.
He in whose service death's courier stalk not,
He in whose service thou shalt acquire a great dignity,
He, in whose service, thou shalt become immortal;
Whose attendant suffers not punishment,
Whose attendant is under no restriction;
In whose office His servant is not called to account,
His service, do thou perform well, O man.
In whose Home, there is dearth of nothing,
Inspite of appearing in various forms, the Lord Himself is but One.
By whose gracious glance, thou shalt, ever be happy,
My soul, perform thou His service.
By himself none in wise and none unwise.
By himself none is a coward and none a hero.
What the Lord attaches the mortal with, therewith he gets attached.
He alone, who is fortunate becomes Lord's slave, O Nanak.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Without Lord's meditation, mortal's life is like that of a snake.
So lives the mammon worshipper, by forgetting the Name.
He, who lives in meditation, even for a moment,
lives for lacs of millions of days, nay rather becomes stable for ever. Pause.
Without Lord's meditation accursed is the doing of works.
Like the crow's beak, an apostate's abode is in ordure.
Without meditation man's deeds become like dog's.
The infidel is nameless like a prostitute's son.
Without Lord's Name, man is like a horned ram.
The infidel barks falsehood and his face is blackened.
Without God's meditation, one is like a donkey.
The evil-doer wanders about in defiled places.
Without Lord's remembrance, he is like a mad dog.
The greedy infidel falls into entanglement.
Without remembering the Lord, the man is a self-murderer.
The disbeliever is mean, he has no family or caste.
Unto whom the Lord becomes merciful, him, He unites with the Society, him, He unites with the Society of Saints.
Says Nanak, the Guru has saved the world.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Through Guru's Word, I have gained the supreme status.
The Perfect Guru has preserved my honour.
By Guru's world I have remembered the Name.
Through the Guru's grace I have obtained a place of rest. Pause.
The Guru's hymns I hear and repeat with my tongue.
Through Guru's grace Nectar sweet has become my speech.
By Guru's word my self-conceit is removed.
By Guru's grace, great is my glory.
Through Gurbani my doubt is dispelled.
Through Guru's Word, I have seen the Lord everywhere.
Through Guru's word I have enjoyed secular and spiritual sovereignty.
By the Guru's company all the men are saved.
Through Guru's Word my affairs are adjusted.
Through Guru's Word I have received the Name treasure.
Who-ever has placed confidence in my Guru,
his death noose has been cut.
By, Guru's word my good fortune has awakened.
Through the Guru, Nanak has met the Supreme Lord.
Gauri, 5th Guru.
That Guru I remember with every breath.
The Guru is my very life, and the True Guru is capital. Pause.
I live by continually seeing the sight of the Guru.
The Guru's feet I continually wash and drink that wash.
In the dust of Guru's feet, I daily take bath.
Like this I have washed off filth of ego of many births.
I wave the fan over that Guru.
Giving his hand, he has saved me from the great fire.
I fetch water for the house of that Guru,
from whom (Guru) I have learnt the way of knowledge.
I, for ever, grind corn for the house of that Guru,
by whose grace, all mine enemies, have become friends.
That Guru, who gave me life,
has himself purchased me and made me his slave.
On his own, he has blest me with his affection.
For ever and ever, I make obeisance unto that Guru.
My hankering, strife, dread, doubt and discomfort, have ended.
Says Nanak, so powerful is my Guru.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Meet me O my World-Lord, bestow on me Thy name.
Blasted and blighted is the love which is without the Name. Pause.
Without God's Name, he, who wears and eats,
is like a dog, who falls in (on) impure leaf plates.
Without the Name the entire business is futile,
like the decoration of a corpse.
Forgetting the Name, he, who indulges in revelments,
has no peace even in dream and his body becomes diseased.
Abandoning Lord's Name, if man engages in other occupations,
the whole of his false gilding would fall off.
The man, who embraces not affection for the Name,
goes to hell even though he perform millions of ceremonial rites.
He who remembers not God's Name in his heart,
is bound like a thief, in the city of death.
Lacs of ostentaions and great extensions,
Without God's Name, false are the displays.
That man alone repeats God's Name, to whom,
O Nanak, he mercifully grants this.
Gauri 5th Guru.
One who stands by me in the beginning, middle and the end,
my soul longs for that Friend.
God's love, ever goes with the mortal.
The Omnipresent and Merciful Master cherishes all. Pause.
The Lord perishes not, and leaving his servant goes no where.
Wherever I gaze, there is He contained.
The Lord is Beautiful, Skilful, Sharp-willed and the Giver of life.
The Master is my brother, son, father and mother.
He is the support of my life and soul He is my capital.
Abiding within my mind, the Lord has caused me to enshrine love for Him.
The World-cherisher has cut off my halter of mammon.
Beholding me with a gracious glance, he has make me His own.
By continually remembering Him, all the diseases are healed.
Fixing attention on his feet all the comforts are enjoyed.
The Omnipresent Lord is ever fresh and ever youthful.
Within and without, God is with me as my Protector.
Says Nanak, one who realises Lord God's dignity,
to that Saint He gives His Name as all the wealth.
Measure Gauri Majh 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Myriads walk about searching Thee, O Lord, but they find not Thy limits.
They alone becomes Thine devotees on whom is Thy grace.
I am a sacrifice, I am a sacrifice, unto Thee, my God. Pause.
By hearing, and again hearing of the Frightful Path, I am terribly terrified.
I have sought Saints' asylum, O God's favourite do thou save me.
The Fascinating Beauteous Beloved is the Giver of support to all.
I bow low and fall at Guru's feet, Causes me to see the Lord, O my Guru.
I have made friends with many, but am a sacrifice to the One alone.
None has all the virtues. God is the brimful treasure of excellences.
In the four directions, Lord's Name is repeated. His contemplators are embellished with bliss.
I crave for Thine protection, O God, Nanak is a sacrifice unto Thee.
Stretching out his arm the Guru has taken me out of the well of worldly attachment.
I have won over the invaluable human life and that I will not lose, again.
I have obtained God, the treasure of everything, whose discourse is ineffable.
Becoming illustrious in God's court I shall wave my arm in joy.
Slave Nanak has found the unequalled and invaluable jewel.
Through Guru's service the dreadful world-ocean is crossed. Unto all I proclaim loudly.
Gauri 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Dye thyself with the love of Lord God.
Repeat thou the Name of God with thy tongue and ask for Him alone. Pause.
Eschew thy ego and reflect upon the Guru given Divine Knowledge.
They alone, in whose eternal lot it is so writ, meet the society of Saints.
Whatever is seen, that goes not with the man.
Attached therewith the foolish mammon-worshipper putrefies and dies.
The Name of the Fascinating Lord is ever pervading.
Amongst million, there is hardly one, who through the Guru, attains to the Name.
Make obeisance, obeisance, unto God's Saints.
Thus shalt thou receive nine treasures and infinite peace.
with thine eyes, behold the holy men.
Within thy mind, sing the praise of the Name-treasure.
Abandon lust, wrath, avarice and worldly love.
Thus be rid of both birth and death.
Distress and darkness shall depart from thy home,
when, within thee, the Guru implants wisdom and lits the Divine lamp.
He, who serves the Lord crosses the sea of life.
Through the Guru, O slave Nanak, the entire world is saved.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Meditating on God's Name and the Great Guru, my doubts are dispelled.
My soul has obtained all the comforts. Pause.
On me, smouldering and burning, the Guru has sprinkled water the Guru is cool like Sandal.
My darkness of ignorance is dispelled, with the Guru's lamp of Divine Knowledge.
The sea of fire is deep, embarking on the Name boat, the Saints have ferried me across.
In me there is no Good deed, faith and piety. Taking me by the arm, the Lord has owned me.
The Destroyer of fear, the Dispeller of pain and the Lover of His Saints, are the Names of God.
God is the Master of the Masterless, Merciful to the meek, Omnipotent and the support of his Saints.
I, virtueless, Make a supplication, O Sovereign Lord, "Bless me with Thine Sight".
Nanak is under Thine protection, O Lord. Thy servant has come and fallen at Thine door.
Gauri 5th Guru.
The man is imbued with the enjoyment of the mortal sins. In their association, the blind man knows not the Lord.
I am ass, I earn, so says he Like this his whole life passes away. Pause.
I am a hero, I am the most distinguished, No one is equal to me.
I am young, of good conduct and of high family. In his mind he has gone haughty like this.
As if he is entrapped by false understanding, he forgets not self-conceit till his death.
Brothers, friends, Kinsmen and companions, who live after him, to them he entrusts his wealth.
The desire, to which the soul is attached, that becomes manifest at the last moment.
The man does pious deeds, through proud intellect, with these entanglements he is bound.
My Merciful Master, show mercy, that Nanak may become the slave of Thine slaves.8/3/15/44 total
There is but One God. True is His Name and Creative His personality. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Measure Gauri Purbi Chhant. 1st Guru.
For the bride the night is painful without her Beloved; she has no sleep.
The wife has grown weak, through grief at the separation of her Spouse.
The wife has gone thin in the sorrow of her Spouse, saying "How shall I see Him with mine eyes?"
For her decorations, sweet dainties, sensuous revelments and victuals are all false and of no account.
Intoxicated with the wine of youth's pride, she is ruined Like the extracted milk, not returning to teats, she will have no further opportunity.
Nanak, the bride meets her Consort, when He causes her to meet Him, and without Him no sleep comes to her.
The bride is unhonoured without her Beloved Master.
How can she attain peace, without embracing Him to her heart?
Without the Groom the home is not worth living in. Ask thy mates and companions.
Without the Name there is no love and affection. With her True Lord she abides in peace.
Through mental truthfulness and contentment union with the Friend is gained and by Guru's instruction the Spouse is known.
Nanak, the wife who abandons not the Name, merges into the Lord, through the Name.
Come my mates and companions let us enjoy our Beloved Husband.
I will ask my Guru and write his instructions as my message.
The True Word, the Guru has shown me. The apostates shall repent.
My roaming mind became steady when I recognised the True One.
The understanding of the True One is ever new and ever fresh is the love of the True Name.
Nanak, from True Lord's gracious glance, peace is obtained. Meet Him, My mates and friends.
My desire has been fulfilled and my Friend has come to my home.
At the union of Husband and wife a song of rejoicing was sung.
By singing the joyful songs, in the praise and love of the Groom, bride's soul is delighted and pleased.
The friends are happy and the enemies unhappy. By meditating in the True One, true profit is gained,
With clasped hands, the wife prays that night and say she may remain immersed in her Lord's love.
Nanak my desire is fulfilled now the Beloved and His consort revel together.
Gauri Chhant 1st Guru.
Hear O my Venerable Lord Spouse I am all alone in the wilderness.
O my Self-dependent Lord Spouse, how can I be comforted without Thee?
The wife cannot live without her Groom. Very painful is the nigh for her.
I get no sleep, my Beloved is pleasing unto me. O my Husband, hear Thou my prayer.
Without Thee, O my Beloved, none takes care of me. I bewail all alone in wilderness.
Nanak, without her Love, the bride suffers anguish, she meets Him only when He causes her to meet.
The one deserted by the Consort who can unite her with her Lord?
Relishing Lord's love and the beauteous Name. She meets her sire Spouse.
When the bride is adorned with the Name, then does she obtain her Spouse and her body is illumined with the lamp of Divine Knowledge.
Hearken, O my friendly comrade by remembering the True Lord and the True One's praises, the wife becomes comfortable.
When introduced by the True Guru then was she enjoyed by her Husband. With the Nectarian Gurbani she has flowered.
Nanak only then the Beloved enjoys His bride when she becomes pleasing to His mind.
The fascinating riches have rendered her homeless. The false one is cheated by falsehood.
How can the noose round her neck be united without the most darling Guru?
He who bears love to the Beloved God and ponders over the Name comes to belong to Him.
How can the giving of alms and donations and many ablutions. Wash off the filth of the heart?
Without the Name none attains salvation. Obstinate self-mortification and living in wilderness avail not.
Nanak the Mansion of the True Lord is recognised through the Name. How can His Mansion be known through duality?
True is Thy Name, O reverend Lord and true is the meditation of the Name.
True is Thine palace and true the trade of thy Name, O Venerable Lord.
Sweet is The business of Thy Name. The Saints earn the profit night and day.
Without this I can think of no other merchandise. Repeat God's Name every moment.
Through True Lord's grace and perfect destiny the mortal assays such an account and obtains the Lord.
Nanak extremely sweet is the Name Nectar. Through the Perfect True Guru it is obtained
Measure Gauri Purbi Chhant 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. True is His Name and Creative His personality. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
The bride prays before the Venerable God and remembers His excellences.
For an instant and a moment she cannot live without her darling God.
Without her Beloved God, she cannot live, Without the Guru, Lord's presence cannot be attained.
Whatever the Guru says that she should extinguish the fire of desire.
That God alone is True and there is none beside Him. Without serving Him, peace is not obtained.
Nanak the wife whom the Lord Himself unites and causes to meet, meets him.
Embellished becomes the night of the bride who fixes her mind with God.
The True Guru she serves with love. Self-conceit she dispels from within her.
By stilling the ego from within and singing God's praises, night and day she loves the Lord.
Hearken thou O my friendly mate, the associate of my mind merge thee in Gurbani.
If thou remember God's merits then thou shalt become dear unto thy Spouse and come to embrace love for the Name.
Nanak, the bride who has the necklace of Lord's Name around her neck is the beloved of her spouse.
Solitary is the wife without her Beloved Husband.
Without the effectual humans of the Guru she is the cheated by another's Love.
Without the dear Name what can enable her cross the formidable Ocean? The attachment of wealth has put her on the wrong track.
When she was ruined by falsehood then was she abandoned by the groom. The bride obtains not Lord's presence.
She who is imbued with Gurbani, gets intoxicated with Lord's love and night and day, remains absorbed in Him.
The Venerable Lord blends with Himself the wife, who, ever, remains steeped in His Love.
If God unites only then do we meet him. Without God who can cause us to meet Him.?
Without our beloved Guru who can dispel our doubt?
Through the Guru, the doubt is dispelled this is the way to meet God, O my mother and like this the bride attains peace.
Sans Guru's service, there is pitch darkness. Without the Guru the way is not found.
The wife who is imbued with the Divine dye and is absorbed in the love of the Lord, dwells on the Guru's hymns.
Nanak, by enshrining love for the Beloved Guru the bride has found God, as her Groom.
Gauri 3rd Guru.
Without my Husband, I am greatly dishonoured. How can I live without my Master, O my Mother?
Without my Spouse I get no sleep and dress bedecks not my body.
Oh my body the clothes look beautiful when I become pleasing to my Spouse. By Guru's instruction my soul is attuned to Him.
If she serve the True Guru, for ever, she becomes a happy wife and sits into the Guru's lap.
If she meets her Beloved through Guru's instruction, then does He enjoy her. The Name alone is the profitable concern in the world.
Nanak, the bride becomes sweet unto her Husband when she sings the praises of God.
With her Beloved, the bride enjoys His love.
Imbued with His live day and night, she dwells on Guru's hymns.
She reflects on Gurbani stills her ego and in this way meets her Beloved.
The wife who is ever imbued in the love of the sweet True Name is her Spouse's favourite.
By abiding in the society of our Guru, we grasp the Name Nectar and kill and cast away our duality.
Nanak finding God as her Groom the bride has forgotten all her discomforts.
Because of mammon's affection and attachment the married women has forgotten her dear Consort.
The false bride is attached with falsehood. The insincere woman is cheated by insincerity.
She who drives away her falsehood and acts upon Guru's instruction, loses not her life in gamble.
She who meditates on the great Name and sheds self-conceit from within merges into the True One.
Enshrine God's Name within thy mind, make thou such decorations.
Nanak the bride who has the support of the True Name merges into the Lord.
Meet me I my honourable Beloved, Without Thee I am greatly dishonoured.
In my eyes there is no sleep and for food and water I have no relish.
I love not food and water and I am dying of the sorrow of His separation. Without the Darling Husband, how can peace be obtained.?
I pray to the Guru if it pleases him, he may unite me with himself in any way he can unite.
Lord, the Giver of Peace has united me with Himself. He Himself has come home to meet me.
Nanak, such a bride is ever her Spouse's favourite. The Beloved neither dies nor parts company.
Gauri Mehla 3
The bride is pierced through with God's elixir and Divine serene temper.
The Heart Enticer has captivated her and her duality has easily been annulled.
Easily annulling her double-mindedness and obtaining her Groom, the bride makes merry under Guru's instruction.
This body is filled up to the fullest with falsehood and deception and commits sins.
Through the Guru is obtained Lord's devotion by which music of beatitude is produced. Sans God's meditation filth is not removed.
Nanak the bride who sheds her self-conceit from within becomes dear unto her Beloved.
The bride has found her Darling Lord, through the love and affection of the Guru.
By clapping the Guru to her heart and mind she peacefully sleeps during the night.
By enshrining the Guru in the mind night and day, she meets her Beloved and her anguishes depart.
Within her heart-mansion, the bride enjoys her Bridegroom by musing over Guru's teaching.
Day and night she drinks the Name Nectar and kills and casts off her duality.
Through the infinite love of the Guru, O Nanak the happy wife meets her True Lord.
O my most Darling Beloved shower Thine benediction and pay me a visit.
The bride supplicated Thee, to adorn her with the True name.
Bedecked with the True Name, the bride effaces her ego and through the Guru her affairs are adjusted.
Throughout all the ages that unique Lord is True and through the Guru given comprehension is He known.
The way-ward wife is engrossed in lust and is tormented by temporal love. Before whom should she go to lodge a complaint?
Nanak, without the exceedingly favourite Guru the way-ward woman, finds no place of rest.
The bride is silly, simpleton and meritless. The groom is Unapproachable and Incomprehensible.
Himself the Lord unites in his union and Himself is He the Pardoner.
The bride's dear Spouse is the Pardoner of sins and is contained in every heart.
The True Guru has imparted this understanding unto me that the Lord is obtained through love. affection, reverential regard and meditation.
The bride who night and day remains absorbed in her Lord's love ever, remains happy throughout the twenty-four hours.
Nanak, the wife, who receives the Name's nine treasures, easily obtains God, as her Husband.
Gauri 3rd Guru.
The mammon's ocean is mightily agitated; how can the terrible ocean be crossed?
Make Lord's Name the boat and put the Gurbani into it as the boatman.
When the helmsman of Gurbani is put therein, God Himself takes across. In this way the impassable ocean is crossed.
Through the Guru, Lord devotional service is obtained and like this man remains dead while alive.
In a moment, Lord's Name effaces his sins and his body becomes pure.
Nanak, through Lord's Name emancipation is procured and dross becomes gold.
The women and men are engrossed in the pleasures of flesh and know not the way to repeat Lord's Name.
Mother, father, sons and brothers are very dear, but they drown even without water.
They are drowned to death without water, who know not the way to salvation and who through pride wander about the world.
Whosoever are come into the world. they all, shall depart. They, who meditate on the Guru, are saved.
He, who gets resigned to the Guru's will and repeats the Lord's Name, saves himself and saves his lineage as well.
Nanak, the name abides within his heart and by the Guru's instruction, he meets the Beloved.
Without the pervading God's Name, nothing is stable. This world is but a play.
Fix firmly true devotion in thy heart and deal only in the Lord's Name.
The trade of Lord's Name is infinite and unfathomable. Through Guru's instruction the wealth of Lord's Name is obtained.
This service, meditation and devotion of thine shall be true, if thou shed self conceit from within thee.
I am senseless foolish, stupid and blind, The True Guru has put me on the right path.
Nanak, the Guru-wards are decorated with God's Name, and night and day sing God's praises.
God Himself does and Himself causes others to do. He Himself embellishes man with His Name.
The Lord Himself is the true Guru and Himself the Gurbani. In every age His Saints are dear to Him.
In every age He Himself adorns His Saints, who are sweet unto Him. He Himself appoints them to Him devotion.
He Himself is all wise. Himself all seeing. He Himself makes man performs His service.
He Himself is the Bestower of merits and destroys demerits. He Himself causes His Name to dwell in man's mind.
Nanak, is ever, a sacrifice unto the True Lord, who Himself does and causes to do everything.
Gauri 3rd Guru.
O my dear, soul, perform thou the service of the Guru and meditate on God's Name.
O my dear, thou art not to get away from me. Receive the Lord whilst sitting at home.
By ever fixing thy attention on God, with instinctive true faith, thou shalt obtain Him while abiding in thy home.
Guru's service is greatly peace bestowing, He alone undertakes it, Whom the Lord Himself causes to perform.
He sows the Name, the Name sprouts within Him, and the Name he places within his mind.
Nanak the greatness is in the True Name. The man receives what is pre-destined for him.
When thou tastest it by fixing thy attention, thou shalt find God's Name Sweet, O my dear.
O mortal, with thy tongue taste God's elixir and forsake the relish of other dainties.
When it pleases God, thou shalt for aye, attain Lord's Nectar and thy tongue shall be adorned with His Name.
He who remembers the Name and keeps his love centered on the Name, attains eternal ease.
By Lord's will the mortal is born, by his will he perishes and by His will he merges into Truth.
Nanak, the Name is obtained by Guru's instruction, With His Name, He Himself attaches.
This alien service is bad, O Darling. Renouncing the bride thou hast gone to foreign country.
In duality none has ever attained ease, O dear. Thou covets sin and greed.
Those who are deluded by poison and avarice and are gone astray in doubt; how can they obtain peace?
Another's service is very painful. Therein the mortal sells himself and loses his faith.
Handcuffed by worldly valuables the mind becomes not stable. Every moment pain tortures him.
O Nanak only then is the pain of wealth vacated, when man attaches his mind to Gurbani.
Way-ward, stupid and ignorant thou art, O my dear soul. God's Name, thou enshrinest not within thy mind.
Owing to mammon's delusion. thou hast gone blind, O my dear. How can thou find God's way?
How can thou find the way till it pleases not the True Guru? An apostate displays himself.
The servants of God are, ever, comfortable. They fix their mind on Guru's feet.
He to whom God shows mercy ever, sings God's praises.
Nanak, the Name jewel is the only profit in this world. To the Guru-wards the Lord Himself imparts this understanding
Measure Gauri Chhant 5th Guru.
There is bur One God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Within my mind is sadness. How shall I behold my Beneficent Lord?
The honourable, great and the Omnipotent Lord Creator is my Friend and Comrade.
O the unique Lord, the destiny-scribe and the Lord of the goddess of wealth. How can I the crest-fallen, meet Thee?
My hands perform Thine service my head is on Thine feet, and in my humble mind is the hope to have Thy sight.
For a breath's duration and an instant, I forget Thee not. Every moment, trice, day and night, I remember Thee, O Master.
Like the pied-cuckoo, Nanak is thirsty for Thee. How shall he meet his Bounteous Lord?
I make a supplication, listen to it, O my Beloved Spouse.
My soul and body have been captivated by seeing Thine wonderous plays.
By beholding Thine wonderous plays I am fascinated. How can I Thy sad bride have patience?
My meritorious merciful and ever-young Bridegroom is brimful of all the excellences.
The fault lies not with my Spouse, the giver of peace. By my own sins, I am separated from Him.
Prays Nanak "Be Merciful and return home, O my Beloved Groom".
I surrender my soul, I surrender my entire body and surrender I my all the lands.
I offer my head to that dear friend, who gives me the message of my Lord.
To the Guru of the most exalted station, I have dedicated my head and he has shown the Lord just with me.
In an instant all the distress of mine is removed and I have obtained all that my mind desired.
Day and night, the bride, now, makes merry, and all her anxieties are ended.
Prays Nanak that he has obtained the Spouse of his choice.
Within my mind is joy and congratulations are pouring in.
My darling Beloved has come home and all my thirst is quenched.
I have met my sweet Master the World -Cherisher and my mates sing songs of joy.
All my friends and kith and kin are in bliss and the very trace of my arch adversaries is removed.
The unbeaten melody resounds in my home and for me and my Beloved a joint bedding is spread.
Prays Nanak, I now reside in celestial bliss. God, the comfort-Bestower Spouse of mine has met me.
Gauri 5th Guru.
O Sweet-heart, lofty are Thine buildings and unsurpassed Thy mansions.
My Enticer, beauteous are Thine gates. They are the places of worship for the Saints.
In Thy temple, the Saints, ever, sing the praises of the Infinite and Merciful Lord.
Where the Saints and holy men assemble, there, they meditate on Thee.
Show compassion and kindness, O Merciful Lord, and by king to the meek.
Supplicates Nanak, I am thirsting for a sight of Thee. By obtaining a view of Thine I receive all the happiness.
O Mohan, beyond-praise is Thy speech, and singular is Thine department.
O Mohan, thou believes in One. All else is as dust to Thee.
Thou adorest the One incomputable Lord, who, through His Omnipotence is giving support to all the universe.
By Guru's instruction, thou hast captured the heart of Creator, the Primal Being.
My Master, Thyself Thou movest Thyself standest still, and Thyself art supporting the entire structure.
Pray Nanak, preserve mine honour. All Thy slaves seek Thine sanctuary.
O Enchanter, the congregation of Saints meditates on Thee and thinks of seeing Thy sight.
Death's Myrmidon draws not near him, who at the last moment thinks of Thee, O Fascinator.
Death's Courier touches him not, who with single mind meditates on the Lord.
He, who in thought, word and deed remembers Thee, O Master, obtains all the fruits.
Thy, who are filthy like ordure, and urine, silly and stupid, become good divines on seeing Thine sight.
Prays Nanak, O my Omnipresent Lord God, ever-stable is Thy sovereignty.
O Mohan, Thou hast profitable fruition with Thy family.
O Mohan, thine sons, friends, brothers and kith and kin all Thou hast saved.
Thou hast also saved those men, who having a view of Thee, have shed their ego.
Death's Courier draws not near them who call Thee "Auspicious".
Infinite are Thine excellences. They cannot be described, O True Guru, the Lord-God.
Supplicated Nanak, Thou keepest that prop, by clinging to which the world, is saved.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Salok.
Uncountable of sinners, Thou purifies, O Lord. Unto Thee, I am again and again a sacrifice.
Nanak, the fire of Lord's Name's meditation is the burner of the sins straw.
Chhant.
My soul, remember thou the Omnipresent Lord God, the Preserve of Universe and the Lord of wealth.
My soul, meditate thou on Lord, the Enemy of pride, and the granter of salvation, who snaps the noose of the painful death.
Contemplate over the lotus feet of the Master, who is the Destroyer of distress, Protector of the poor and the Lord of excellence.
Death's arduous track and the ocean of fire, are crossed by remembering God, for and instant.
Day and night, O Man remember God, who is the Destroyer of desire and the Purifier of pollution.
Prays Nanak, take pity on me, O Thou the World-Cherisher, the master of the Universe, and the Lord of wealth.
O my mind, meditate thou on Lord God, the King, who is the Eradicator of anguish and the Destroyer of dread.
By His nature the Merciful Master is the Lover of eminence, the Enchanter of the mind and the Shield of the Saints.
The perfect Lord is the lover of devotion. From Him mind's desires are obtained.
God extricates man from the dark blind well. Enshrine thou His Name within thy mind.
The gods, adepts, God's slaves, heavenly singers, silent sages and Saints sing manifold praises of Thine, O Lord.
Supplicates Nanak, O my sovereign Supreme Lord God show mercy unto me.
My soul remember that Supreme God the Transcendent Lord, who wields all power.
The Lord is All-powerful and the embodiment of compassion. He is the prop of the life of every heart.
The Infinite, Inaccessible and Illimitable Lord is the Giver of life, mind, body and soul.
The Refugee-protector, All-powerful and the mind enticer banishes all the sorrows.
All the ailments, lamentations and wickedness are annulled by repeating the Name of the Lord, the Killer of Mur demon.
Prays Nanak, take pity on me, O my All-powerful Lord. All the power is in Thine hands.
My soul, sing, the praises of the immovable, Imperishable and the Merciful Master, who is the Highest of all.
The Lord alone is the Giver and Filler of the World and He cherishes all.
The most kind and the wise World Nurturer takes pity on all.
The thorny death avarice and worldly love flee from him in whose mind the Lord abides.
He, with whom the Lord is pleased, His service becomes fruitful and toil perfect.
Supplicates Nanak, my desire is fulfilled by contemplating over God, who is kind to the meek.
Gauri 5th Guru.
Hear, my mates, let us join and make effort, to reconcile God, our Bridegroom.
By shedding our ego, administering the charm of devotion and saints word, let us fascinate Him.
O my mates, once He comes under our power, he shall not, again, forsake us. This is the good custom of the Illustrious Lord.
Nanak, the Lord destroys the dread of old age, death and hell of that mortal, with whom He is pleased and He purifies him.
Hear, my companions, to my good supplication. Let us firmly resolve like this.
Getting rid of ills, let us naturally sing the songs in praise of the World-Lord.
Our disputes and strifes shall depart, our doubts be dispelled and we shall obtain the heart desired boons.
O Nanak, let us meditate on the Name of the Transcendent, Omnipresent and Supreme Lord.
O my mate, I ever, long for Him and invoke His blessing. May the Lord fulfil my hope.
I thirst for Lord's Feet and long for His sight. I look for Him in all the places.
God's tracks I will trace in the company of holy men. The saint unites the mortal with the Omnipresent Lord.
Nanak, whom the Comfort Bestower Pious Being meets they are very fortunate, O Mother.
O my mate, I now abide with my Beloved Husband. My Mind and body are domesticated with God.
Hear, O My friend, I have good sleep, since I have found my Darling Spouse.
My doubt is dispelled. I have obtained peace and rest. The Lord has appeared unto me and my heart-lotus has blossomed,
I have found the Lord, Searcher of hearts, as my Bridegroom, O Nanak, my married life shall never cease.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Gauri Having Fifty two letters Fifth Guru.
Salok
The Divine Guru is my Mother, the Divine Guru my Father, and the divine Guru is my Lord and Supreme God.
The Divine Guru is my companion, the dispeller of spiritual ignorance and the Divine Guru is my relation and brother.
The Divine Guru is the giver and the teacher of God's Name and the Divine Guru is my Infallible spell.
The Divine Guru is the image of peace, truth and wisdom. The Divine Guru is the Philosopher's stone by touching which the mortal is saved.
The Divine Guru is a place of pilgrimage and a tank of Nectar. By having a bath in Guru's Divine Knowledge, man meets the Illimitable Master.
The Divine Guru is the Creator and the Destroyer of all the sins and the Divine Guru is the purifier of the impure.
The Divine Guru is from the beginning, from the beginning from the beginning of ages and in every age. The Divine Guru is the spell of God's Name, by repeating which the mortal is saved.
My Master, take pity and unite me, a fool and a sinner, with the society of the Guru, by clinging to which I may swim across the sea of life.
The Divine Guru the True Guru, is Himself the Exalted Lord and the Great God. Unto the Godly Divine Guru, Nanak makes an obeisance.
Salok
God Himself acts and causes men to act. He Himself is potent to do everything.
Nanak, the One Lord is pervading everywhere. Another there neither was nor shall be.
Pauri.
I pay homage to One God and the Saintly True Guru.
The Formless One is in the beginning the middle and the end.
The Lord Himself is in primordial trance and Himself is in the seat of peace.
He Himself hears His praises.
His ownself, He has Himself created.
He is His own father, His own mother.
He Himself, is minute and Himself great.
Nanak His play cannot be understood.
O Lord, compassionate to the poor, show mercy unto me,
so that my heart may become the dust of Thine Saints' feet. Pause.
Slok.
The One Lord is without form and yet with form. He is without qualities and yet is with qualities.
Nanak, describe the One Lord as One. The One Lord is One and Manifold.
Pauri.
The One Lord, the Great Guru, created all the forms.
He has strung them all unto One thread.
The three qualities, He has differently diffused.
From Absolute He appears to be Related.
The Creator has created the creation of all sorts.
Worldly love, the root of birth and death, the Master has increased in man's mind.
From both the varieties He Himself is free.
Nanak, the Lord has no limit and this or that end.
Slok.
They are rich and they are fortunate, who have the wealth of Truth and the capital of God's Name.
Nanak, truthfulness and piety are obtained from those Saints.
Pauri.
S: True, true, true is that Lord.
None is separate from the True Lord.
He alone enters His sanctuary, whom He causes to enter.
He sings preaches on Lord's excellences.
Doubt and delusion cling to him not in the least.
Obviously manifest Glory of the Divine is seen by him.
He is the Saint, who attains to this destination.
Nanak is, ever, a sacrifice unto him.
Salok.
Why art thou crying for wealth and riches? Love of worldly valuables is all false.
Without God's Name, O Nanak all are being reduced to dust.
Pauri.
Dh: Sacred is the dust of Thine slave's feet, O Lord.
Blest are they within whose mind this longing subsists.
They want not wealth and desire not paradise.
They are fascinated with the intense love of the Beloved and dust of Saints feet.
How can worldly affairs affect those,
who forsaking the One Lord go not anywhere else?
He, within whose mind the Lord has put His Name,
is the Perfect saint of God, O Nanak.
Slok.
Through various religious garbs knowledge, concentration and mind's obstinacy, none has met the Lord.
Says Nanak, he, on whom is Lord's grace is the Saint and the Divine.
Pauri.
Ng: Divine Knowledge is not obtained by words of mouth.
Nor is it obtained through many kinds of arguments, which the Shastras tell.
He alone is the theologian, within whose mind that Lord, firmly fixed.
Through tell-tale and hearsay, one becomes not worthy at all.
He is the Divine, who remains firmly committed to obey Lord's fiat.
Heat and cold are all alike to him.
He who, through the Guru, meditates on the master,
O Nanak, is the real theologian to whom He extends his mercy.
Slok.
The comers come into the world but sans knowing God, they are like animals and beasts.
Nanak, he alone knows the Lord, through the Guru, who has good destiny recorded on his forehead.
Pauri.
In this world, the mortal is come to meditate on the Lord alone.
Since his very birth, he is allured by the fascinating mammon.
Inverted in the pit of the womb, the mortal performed penance.
There with every breath, he continued to remember the Lord.
He is entangled with what he must abandon.
The Giver he forgets in his mind.
He, to whom Thou showest favour, O Lord of the earth,
forgets Thee not, here and hereafter O Nanak.
Slok.
Man is born by Lord's order and he dies by Lord's order. None is exempt from His order.
The coming and going is at an end for him, O Nanak, in whose heart that Lord abides.
Pauri.
This soul has dwelt in many wombs.
Enraptured by the sweet worldly attachment this soul remained entangled in those existences.
This mammon has subjugated the mortals of three qualities.
Its own love, it has infused in every heart.
O friend, tell me of some device.
By which I may swim across this arduous ocean of mammon.
Whom the Lord showers His benediction & unites with the society of Saints,
Nanak, mammon draws not near him.
Slok.
That Lord Himself causes man to perform good and bad acts.
The beast indulges in self-conceit and ego. Nanak, what can he do without God.
Pauri.
The Lord alone causes the mortals to act.
He himself diffuses sins and noble deeds.
In this age, man is attached to what the Lord Himself attaches him with.
He receives only that what God Himself gives.
His limit no one knows.
Whatever the Lord does, that ultimately, comes to pass.
From One alone is the entire expanse.
Nanak, the Lord Himself is the Reformer.
Slok.
Man remains engrossed in women and playful merriments and the tumult of passions is like the dye of Saf-flower.
Nanak, take His protection and thy self-conceit and self-hood shall depart.
Pauri.
O my soul, without God in whatsoever thou engage, there art thou loaded with chains.
The mammon-worshipper does the very deeds by means of which, he cannot in any way secure release.
The lovers of rituals who practise pride, they bear an unendurable load.
When there is no love with the God's Name, then, these rituals are sinful.
They who are in Love with the sweet worldly valuables, are bound with death's rope.
Deluded by doubt, they understand not that the Lord is ever, with them.
They shall not be acquitted when their accounts are gone into. The mud wall can never be neat and tidy.
He, whom God imparts understanding through the Guru, O Nanak, acquires immaculate understanding.
Slock
He, whose fetters are cut off, meets the Society of Saints.
They who are imbued with the love of One Lord, have a fast deep colour.
Pauri.
R: Dye this heart of thine with Lord's love.
Lord God's Name, repeat thou again and again, with tongue.
None shall address thee rudely in God's Court.
All shall welcome thee saying "Come, sit down".
In that mansion of the Lord thou shall obtain a dwelling.
There in no birth, death and destruction there.
On whose brow good destiny is pre-recorded,
God's wealth is in the house of him, O Nanak!
Slok
Avarice, falsehood, sin and worldly love overtake the blind-folded fool.
Bound down by mammon, they are cling to an offensive smell.
Pauri.
L: The men are entangled and tinctured with sinful pleasures.
They are intoxicated with the wine of haughty intellect and wealth.
In this mammon the mortal continues coming and going.
As is the Lord's order, so do men do.
No one is imperfect and no one is perfect.
By himself none is wise and none foolish,
where-so-ever Thou engagest man, there he gets engaged.
Nanak, the Lord, ever, remains detached.
Slok.
My Beloved Master, the World Cherisher and the Preserver of universe is deep, fortitudinous and unfathomable.
There is no other like Him. Nanak, He is altogether unconcerned.
Pauri.
L: There is none equal to Him. He is but One, there shall not be another.
He is but One, there shall not be another.
He is now, He shall be, and He, ever, has been.
His limit, none has ever found.
In an ant and an elephant, He is fully contained.
The renowned Lord is known everywhere.
He, to whom God has given His Love,
repeats Lord Master's. Name, O Nanak, through the Lord.
Slok.
He who knows the relish of Lord's elixir, naturally, enjoys God's love,
Blessed, blessed blessed are the Lord's slaves and acceptable is their advent in this world, O Nanak.
Pauri.
Count as profitable the advent of him,
whose tongue celebrates Lord God's praise.
He comes and associates with the Saints,
and night and day repeats the Name with love.
Fruitful is the birth of that man who is imbued with God's Name,
and on whom is the mercy and grace of God, the Destiny Maker.
He is born but once and enters not womb again.
Nanak, He merges into the sight of God.
Slok.
By repeating which the soul becomes happy, love of another is effaced,
and there is an end to pain, distress and earthly desires; Nanak, be absorbed in that Name.
Pauri.
Y: Burn thou thy evil-intellect and duality.
Relinquish them and sleep in peace and equipoise.
Y: Go and Seek Saints sanctuary,
by whose help, thou shalt cross this terrible world ocean.
Y: He is not born again,
who takes the One Name in his heart.
Y: Through the support of the Perfect Guru, thou shalt not lose thy human birth.
Nanak, he within whose heart there is but One Lord, obtain peace.
Slok
He, who is man's friend in this world and the next one, resides within his soul and body.
The Perfect Guru has taught me, O Nanak, ever to meditate on the Lord.
Pauri.
Night and day meditate upon Him, who will be thy Helper in the end.
This poison is only for four on six days. All must depart leaving it behind.
Whose are mother, father, son and daughter?
House, wife and else he takes not with him.
Amass such wealth, which perishes not,
so that thou mayest go to thy home with honour.
They, who in this Dark age sing God's praises, in the society of Saints,
O Nanak, come not into this world, again.
Slok
Though one be very handsome, of high birth, wise a leading theologian and wealthy,
he shall be called as dead, O Nanak, if he has not love for the Auspicious Master.
Pauri.
NG:- One may be the knower of six schools of philosophy.
He may do the work of inhaling, exhaling and holding the breath (like a Yogi).
He may practise, Divine knowledge, meditation, pilgrimages, and ablutions.
He may cook his own food, touch not others and abide in wilderness,
If in his heart, he bears not love with the Lord's Name,
then all that he does that is perishable.
Superior to him, deem thou the Pariah,
O Nanak in whose heart God, the Nurser of the Universe abides.
Slok.
The mortal wanders about in the four quarters and the ten direction of the world bearing the marks of deeds done.
Weal and woe, emancipation and transmigration, O Nanak, are in accordance with written record.
Pauri.
K: He the Lord is the Creator and cause.
The scribed writ none can erase.
Nothing can be done a second time.
The Creator errs not.
To Some He Himself shows the way.
To some He causes to wander sorrowfully in wilderness.
His play, He has Himself set afoot.
Whatsoever the Lord gives that the man, receives.
Slok.
The men keep on eating spending and enjoying, but God's store-houses exhaust not.
God's Name good many people repeat. Their number, O Nanak, cannot be ascertained.
Pauri.
KH: There is paucity of nothing with that Omnipotent Lord.
What-ever the Lord is to give. He continues to give. Let man go anywhere he likes.
The wealth of the Name is the treasure with the Saints to spend. It is their capital.
With forbearance, humility, joy and equipoise, they continue meditating upon Lord, the Treasure of excellences.
They, unto whom God becomes merciful sport and blossom with (in) glee.
They, who have the wealth of Lord's Name in their home, are ever rich and beauteous.
They on whom God casts His kind glance suffer neither torture nor pain, nor punishment.
Nanak, they who are pleasing to the Lord, become perfectly successful.
Slok,
See by calculating and weighing in thy mind, that people must assuredly depart.
The desire for perishable things is effaced, through the Guru. In the Name alone is there health.
Pauri.
G: Utter thou the praise of the Master of the world with thy every breath and ever meditate on Him.
What reliance can be placed on the body? Make no delay, O my friend,
there is no hitch in the way of death, either in childhood, or in youth, or in old age.
That time is not know, when the noose of death shall come and fall upon thee.
See that the divine, that meditate and the clever stay not in this place.
The fool clings to that, what every one has left behind and departed.
He, on whose forehead good destiny is recorded continues to remember God by Guru's grace.
Nanak, profitable is the advent in this world of those, who attain the Beloved Lord as their Spouse.
Slok.
I have searched all the Shashtras and Vedas. They speak of nothing otherwise than this.
That one Lord was in the beginning, in the beginning of ages, is now and ever, shall be, O Nanak.
Pauri.
Gh: Put this into thy mind that there is no other than God.
There was none, and none there shall be, only He is contained everywhere.
Only then shalt thou be absorbed in Him, O man, if thou seekest His sanctuary.
In this Dark age, God's Name is the real atonement for sins.
By toiling and labouring, how can they obtain stability?
without God's meditation, how can thee obtain stability.
He stirs and drinks the supreme nectareous essence,
O Nanak, to whom the Divine Guru gives.
Slok
The Lord has counted and put in the man, all the days and breathing. They neither increase not decrease even to the extent of a sesame.
They, who wish to live in superstition and worldly love, O Nanak, are fools.
Pauri.
Ng: Death seizes him, whom the Lord has make the worshipper of mammon.
He who realises not the All pervading Soul, is born and dies in many existences.
He alone obtains Divine knowledge and meditation,
whom the Lord Himself mercifully gives.
None can be emancipated by making calculations.
The earthen body-pitcher shall assuredly burst.
He alone lives, who whilst alive, meditates on the Lord.
He becomes distinguished, O Nanak, and remains not obscure.
Slok.
By meditation within my mind on the Lord's lotus feet, my inverted heart lotus has blossomed.
By Saints instruction, O Nanak, the Lord of the world Himself becomes manifest.
Pauri.
Ch: When I got attached to Guru's lotus feet,
Blest, blest is that day, and auspicious the conjuncture.
I have come after wandering in four quarters and ten directions,
when God showed mercy, I obtained Guru's sight, then.
Through meritorious meditation, all duality is removed.
In the society of Saints, my mind is rendered Pure.
He forgets the anxieties and beholds the One Lord,
Nanak, to whose eyes the salv of Divine Knowledge is applied.
Slok.
The breast becomes cool and the soul happy, by singing the chhant of the praises of the World-Lord.
Show such compassion, O my Lord, that Nanak may become the slave of Thine slaves.
Pauri.
Chh: I am a slave boy of Thine.
I am the water carrier of the serf of Thy serfs.
Chh: That I may become the dust of Thine Saints,
show Thy mercy unto me, O my Auspicious Master.
I have abandoned my excessive wisdom and cleverness,
and have propped up my mind with the Saints' prop.
The puppet of ashes, whom the Saints assist,
obtains the supreme status, O Nanak.
Slok.
Practising oppression and tyranny the mortal is greatly inflated and commits sins with his frail body.
Through haughty-intellect he is fettered. Nanak, the deliverance is through Lord's Name.
Pauri.
J: When man thinks he has become something,
through error, he is, then, caught like a parrot in a trap.
When he deems himself a Saint and a theologian,
in the world to come, the Lord shall not have even a sesame's regard for him.
When he considers himself to be a preacher,
he merely wanders over the earth like a pedlar.
He, who effaces his self-conceit in the society of Saints,
O Nanak, him, Lord, the Killer of Mur (demon) meets.
Slok.
Rise early in the morning, repeat the Name, and night and day meditate on the Lord.
No anxiety shall befall thee and thy calamity shall vanish.
Pauri.
Jh: Your repentance shall come to an end,
by having dealings with the Lord's Name.
He dies in excessive grief,
the apostate, who has another's love in his heart.
Thine evil deeds and sins shall fall off, O my soul,
by hearing the Nectarean Divine discourse in the Saint congregation.
Lust, wrath and wickednesses fall off from him,
Nanak, on whom is the grace of the world-Lord.
Slok.
Though thou mayest make efforts of various kinds, thou shalt not stay, O my friend.
Thou shalt live eternally O Nanak, if thou remembrest Lord God and love the Name.
Pauri.
Ny: Know it as perfectly correct, that this worldly love shall sunder.
Though I may make calculation, but I cannot count as to how many got up and departed
Who, so ever I behold he will perish. With whom should I therefore associate?
In this way know it as correct in thy mind that the love of worldly valuables is false.
He alone knows and he alone is a Saint whom the Lord has made free from superstition.
Him with whom Thou, O God, art mightily pleased, Thou extricatest from the blind well.
He, whose hand is Omnipotent is potent to create the world.
Nanak do thou praise Him, who is the effector of thy union with Himself.
Slok.
By serving the Saints the bonds of birth and death are broken and man obtains rest.
Nanak, within my mind I may never forget the Sovereign World-Lord, the Treasure of goodness.
Pauri.
Serve thou the One Lord, from who, none returns empty handed
if God abides in thy soul, body mouth, and mind then what thou desirest that shall come to pass.
He alone obtains Lord's service and mansion to whom the Saint is compassionate.
Then alone the mortal dwells in the Saints congregation when the Lord Himself becomes merciful.
I have explored and searched many worlds but without Lord's Name there is no peace.
The couriers of death recede away from him, who abides in the society of Saints.
Again and again I am devoted unto the Saints,
through whom, O Nanak, my long standing sins are effaced.
Slok
They with whom that Lord is pleased meet not a limp at His Door.
Blest, blest are those persons, O Nanak, whom the Lord has made His own.
Pauri.
Th: They hurt no any one's felings,
who having abandoned all else cling to the unique One.
They, who are greatly involved with worldly wealth are dead,
and they obtain not happiness anywhere.
He, who abides in the guild of Saints is pacified,
and the Nectar. Name becomes sweet to his soul.
The person, who is pleasing to His Lord,
O Nanak, his mind is cooled down.
Slok.
Prostrate salutation and obeisance I make many a time before the Omnipotent Lord the Possessor of all the powers.
Reach me Thy hand, O Lord and save me from wavering says Nanak.
Pauri.
D: This is not thy abode, know that place where thy abode is.
Know thou by Guru's instruction, the way to reach that abode.
This dwelling over here, one erects with toil,
but even a particle of this goes not with him.
Only he knows the worth of that dwelling,
whom the Perfect Auspicious Master casts His gracious glance.
This dwelling is permanent and true and is obtained through the society of Saints.
Nanak, those slaves, who obtain it, waver not.
Slok.
When the Righteous Judge begins to demolish no one can put a check in His way.
Nanak, they who meditate on God by establishing a tie with the guild of Saints are saved.
Pauri.
Dh: Where does thou go about searching? The search is to be made in this very mind.
The Lord resides with thee why wanderest thou from forest to forest?
In the society of Saints pull down the terrible heap of thy intellectual pride.
So shalt thou find rest, abide in peace and be happy by seeing the sight of the Lord.
He within whom this heap is born dies and suffers the anguish of the womb life.
He who is intoxicated with worldly love and is entangled in ego and self-conceit, continues coming and going.
I have now, slowly and steadily fallen under the protection of the pious persons.
The Master has cut the meshes of my distress and blended me with Himself, O Nanak.
Slok.
O Nanak, where the Saints, ever repeat the World-Lord's Name and praise,
The Righteous Judge says "Draw not near that place O couriers, otherwise neither I, nor you shall escape".
Pauri.
N: Any one who conquers his mind he wins the life battle.
He who dies fighting against his self-conceit and duality becomes supremely sublime.
He who effaces his ego shall under Guru's instruction, remain dead while alive.
He conquers his mind, meets God and obtains the robe of honour for his chivalry.
He deems nothing as his own. The one Lord is his prop and support.
Night and day he continues to contemplate over that Mighty and Infinite Lord.
This mind of his he makes the dust of all, such deeds does he do.
Understanding Lord's order, he attains ever lasting peace, O Nanak, and obtains what is destined for him.
Slok.
I dedicate my body, soul and wealth unto him who may unite me with my Master.
Nanak, my doubt and dread are dispelled and the Death's myrmidon eyed me no more.
Pauri.
T: Enshrine affection for that King who is the treasury of excellences and the World-Lord.
Thou shalt obtain thy heart-desired fruits and thy burning shall cease.
He in whose heart the Name abides shall have no fear on the road to death.
He shall obtain salvation his understanding shall become enlightened and he will secure a seat in Lord's palace.
With thee shall go neither wealth nor home, nor youth nor empire.
In the society of Saints continue to remember God. This alone shall be of avail unto Thee.
There shall be absolutely no burning when the Lord Himself shall remove thy fever.
Nanak God Himself nurtures us. He is our Mother and Father.
Slok.
The perverse have grown weary by toiling in various ways. They are not appeased nor is their thirst quenched.
Hoarding and amassing the mammon -worshippers die and wealth goes not with them.
Pauri.
Th: None is stable why stretchest thou thy feet?
In thine efforts after wealth alone, thou practisest great fraud and deceit.
Thou toilest to fill thy bag, O fool and then fallest down weary.
That shall not be of any avail to thy soul at the last moment and time.
Thou shalt obtain stability by remembering the World-Lord and accepting Saints' teaching.
Ever embrace affection for the One Lord. This is the true love.
God is the Doer and Prompter of actions. All the device are in His hand alone.
To what-so-ever thou attachest Him to that he attaches, O Lord. The creature. O Nanak, is helpless.
Slok.
His slaves have seen the One Master, Who is the giver of everything.
At every breath they continue to remember God. Nanak a sight of Him is their support.
Pauri.
D: The unique Lord is the Bestower, He is the Giver to all.
In His giving there is no stint. Numberless are His brimful stores.
The Giver is for ever alive.
O foolish man why hast thou forgotten Him?
None is at fault, O my friend.
It is the Lord who has forged the fetters of mammon's attachment.
He whose pain He Himself removes,
that Guru-ward is satiated, O Nanak.
Slok.
O My soul, grasp thou the support of One God. Forsake the hope of another.
Nanak, by pondering over the Name the affairs are adjusted.
Pauri.
Dh: Then alone does the wandering cease when man attains an abode in Saints Society
If the Lord Himself bestows mercy from the beginning then dies the mind become enlightened
They who have the true wealth, are the true bankers.
The Lord Master is their Capital and they deal in His Name.
Patience, glory and honour behoove him,
who with his ears hears Lord God's Name.
The person within whose heart the Exalted Master is contained,
O Nanak, he obtains greatness.
Slok
Nanak, he who within and without repeats God's Name with devotion and love,
receives instruction from the perfect Guru and joins the Saints congregation, falls not into hell.
Pauri.
N: They fall not into hell,
within whose heart and body, the Name abides.
They who through the Guru ponder over the Name treasure,
are not destroyed in (by) the mammon -poison.
Refusal awaits them not,
whom the Guru has given the spell of the name.
Those who are brimful with the nectar of God's Name, the treasury of wealth,
O Nanak, for them the unbeaten musical instruments play.
Slok
When I abandoned hypocrisy worldly love and sin, the great supreme Lord preserved my honour.
Nanak, contemplate over Him, who has no limit and this and that end.
Pauri.
P: God is beyond estimation and His limit cannot be found.
God the King is Inaccessible and the Purifier of sinners.
Millions of those offenders become pure,
who meet the Saints and repeat the Nectarean Name.
They become free of deception fraud and worldly love,
to whom Thou Thyself preservest O the World-Lord.
He is the Minarch with royal umbrella over His head.
Nanak there is no other second Sovereign.
Slok
By conquering the mind death's nooses are cut, wanderings cease and victory is obtained.
Nanak from the Guru permanence is attained and the transmigration of day to day is effaced.
Pauri.
Ph: Thou hast come after long wanderings.
In this Dark age thou hast obtained the scarcely procurable human body.
This opportunity shall not again come to thy hand.
Repeat Lord's Name then shall the death's noose be cut away.
Thou shalt not come and go again and again,
by meditating on that One and One alone.
Have mercy, O Lord the Creator,
and blend poor Nanak with Thee.
Slok.
Hear Thou my supplication, O Supreme Lord Merciful to the poor and the Nurser of the World.
The dust of Saints' feet is as comfort wealth great enjoyment and pleasure for Nanak.
Pauri.
B: He who understands the Lord is a Brahman.
Vishnu is he who through the Guru accepts the religion of piety.
Hero is he who effaces his evil,
Harm draws not near him.
Man is bound by the chain of his ego and self-conceit.
But the blind man imputes blame to others.
Discussions and clevernesses are all of no avail.
He whom the Lord causes to know O Nanak knows Him.
Slok
Heartily remember God who is the Destroyer of dread and the Remover of sin and sorrow.
He in whose heart the Lord abides through the society of Saints wanders not O Nanak.
Pauri.
Bh: Cast off thine doubt.
This world is all a dream.
In error are angelic persons goddesses and gods.
Lured by doubt are the men of miracle strivers and the God of creation.
Wandering in misgiving the men are ruined.
Very dangerous and difficult to cross is this sea of mammon.
He who through the Guru had efface his superstition fear and worldly attachment,
obtains the supreme comfort, O Nanak.
Slok
Through wealth the mind wavers in many ways and clings there with.
Nanak he whom Thou O Lord preventest from asking for wealth imbibes love for the Name.
Pauri.
M: The mumper is ignorant.
The Omnipotent Giver continues to give.
Whatever the Lord is to give, He gives that once for all.
O foolish mind why complainest thou aloud?
Whenever thou asketh for then thou asketh for worldly objects,
from who, none had derived happiness.
If thou prayest for a gift then ask for One Lord,
by which thou shalt be saved. O Nanak.
Slok.
Perfect is their intellect and the most distinguished are they within whose mind is the Perfect Guru's instruction.
Nanak, they who realise their Lord are fortunate.
Pauri.
M: He who knows God's secret,
is satisfied on meeting the guild of Saints.
He deems woe and weal as the same.
He is exempted from entering hell and paradise.
He abides with the world yet he is apart from it.
He beholds the sublime Lord filling every heart.
In the love of the Lord he has attained peace,
Nanak him the worldly valuables cling not.
Slok
O my friends adherents and intimates, hear me, without God there is no deliverance.
Nanak he who falls at Guru's Feet had his fetters cut away.
Pauri.
Y: Man makes efforts of so many sorts,
but without the one Name how far can he succeed
The efforts by which emancipation can be obtained,
those efforts are made in the Saints association.
Though every one entertains the idea of this salvation,
yet sans remembering that Lord there can be no salvation.
Like a ship the Lord is capable to take across this world-ocean.
O Lord, preserve the meritless mortals!
whom God Himself instructs in thought word and deed,
Nanak, his intellect becomes enlightened.
Slok
Be not angry with any one and think of thy own-self.
Abide humble in the world O Nanak and through God's grace thou shalt be delivered.
Pauri.
R: Be thou the dust of all the mortals,
shed the ego and the balance due from thee shall be written off.
O brother then alone shalt thou win the battle in Lord's Court,
if under Guru's instruction thou fix thy attention on Lord's Name.
Thine sins shall slowly and steadily be blotted out,
by the perfect Guru's unparalleled Gurbani.
They are imbued with Lord's love and are intoxicated with the Name Nectar,
Nanak, to whom the Godly Guru gives the gift.
Slok.
The afflictions of avarice falsehood and sin abide in this body.
By quaffing through the Guru the Nectar of God's Name man dwells in peace, O Nanak.
Pauri.
L: He to whom thou appliest the medicine of Thy Name,
O Lord, is cured of his pain and sorrow in an instant.
He who within his mind love the medicine of God's Name,
is not infested by disease even in his dream.
The medicine of God's Name is in every heart, O Brother.
Except the Perfect Guru no one knows the method to prepare it.
When the Perfect Guru administers the medicine after giving the directions,
then man sickens not again, O Nanak.
Slok
The Pervading Lord is in all the places. In no place He is deficient.
Within and without he is with thee. What can be concealed from Him, O Nanak.
Pauri.
W: Bear not enmity to any one.
In every heart the Lord is contained.
The Pervading Lord is contained in sea and land.
Some rare person, by Guru's grace sings His praise.
Enmity and variance depart from the mind of him,
who through the Guru, hears God's praise.
He rises above all caste and caste marks,
O Nanak who under Guru's instruction utters God's Name.
Slok.
The stupid and ignorant mammon-worshipper passes his life practising pride.
In agony he dies like a thirsty man and obtains the fruit of his deeds done.
Pauri.
R: By associating with the Saints his strife ends,
and he meditates on the Name which is the essence of religious rites and creeds.
In whose heart the Beauteous Lord abides,
his strife is erased and ended.
The ignorant infidel in whose heart the sin of intellectual pride abides,
picks up quarrels.
Rh: the strife ceases in a moment,
when the Exalted Guru instructs,.O Nanak.
Slok
O my soul, grasp the protection of the Saint and lay aside thy argumentation and cleverness.
He within whose heart Guru's instruction abides had good luck recorded on his brow, O Nanak.
Pauri.
S: I have now O Lord, entered Thine sanctuary,
I have become weary of repeating Shashtras, Simritis and the Vedas.
By searching and scrutinizing,
I have realised that without God's meditation man obtains not emancipation.
With every breath I make mistakes.
Thou art Omnipotent Incomputable and Infinite.
O Lord, Merciful master save me, I have sought Thine protection.
O Cherisher of the world, Nanak is a child of Thine.
Slok.
When self-conceit is erased then does peace ensue and the mind and body are healed.
Nanak then it is that He who is worthy of praise is beheld.
Pauri.
Kh: Greatly eulogise Him,
who in an instant fills to the brim the empty ones.
When the mortal becomes thoroughly humble,
he then remembers the Pristine Lord, night and day.
If it pleases the Lord then dies he grant peace.
So Infinite is the Supreme Lord.
Numberless sins he forgives in an instant.
Nanak the Master is ever Merciful.
Slok
Verily I say unto thee hear me O My soul. Fall under the protection of God the King.
Cast aside all thy devices and clevernesses and God shall merge thee in Himself O Nanak.
Pauri.
S: Lay aside thy cleverness, O ignorant man.
with contrivance and order the Lord is not pleased.
Even though thou may practise a thousand forms of cleverness,
not even one shall go with (avail) thee.
That, that Lord remember thou day and night,
O man he shall go with thee.
He, whom the Lord Himself applies to the service of Saint,
him calamity befalls not O Nanak.
Slok
By uttering God's Name with the mouth and keeping It in the mind peace ensues.
Nanak the Lord is pervading every where In places and interspaces He is contained.
Pauri.
Lo, the Auspicious Lord is fully contained among the hearts of all.
The understanding imparted by the Guru for ever and aye had been the destroyer of distress.
By stilling his ego man attains bliss. Where self-conceit is not God Himself is there.
By the power of the society of Saints the pain of birth and death is removed.
Who lovingly fix the Name of Merciful Master within their hearts,
in the society of Saints, He then becomes compassionate unto them.
Here, none has accomplished any thing, by himself.
Nanak, everything has been done by the Lord.
Slok
In view of his account the mortal can never be released since the errs every moment.
O thou Pardoner, pardon me and ferry Nanak across the world-ocean.
Pauri.
The man is untrue to His salt and a sinner. He is ignorant and of paltry understanding.
Who gave him soul body and comfort Him, the Essence of all he knows not.
For the sake of worldly gain he goes searching in ten directions.
Lord the Bounteous Bestower he enshrines not in his mind, even for an instant.
Avarice, falsehood, sin and worldly love these he amasses within his mind.
The great libertines thieves and slanderers with them he passes his life.
If it pleases Thee, O Lord then Thou forgivest the counterfeit along with the genuine.
Nanak, provided it be pleasing to the Supreme Lord the stone floats on water.
Slok
In eating drinking, playing and laughing have I wandered in many births.
Take me out of the terrible world-ocean my Master. Nanak has Thy support alone.
Pauri.
Sporting, playing and suffering pain in many existences I have come as human being.
Troubles are removed by meeting the Saint and being absorbed in True Guru's instruction.
Adopting forbearance and amassing truth man partakes of the Name Nectar.
When the Lord showed His great mercy, I found haven in joy and happiness.
My merchandise has safely arrived, I have made good profit and have returned home with honour.
Great is the consolation the Guru has given me and the illustrious Lord has come and met me.
God Himself acted and Himself acts He was in the past and Himself shall be in future.
Nanak, praise Him alone who is contained in every heart.
Slok
My Merciful Master the Ocean of Compassion I have entered Thine sanctuary.
Nanak, he in whose mind the Unique Imperishable Lord abides becomes mightily pleased.
Pauri.
In the Lord's word is the installation of the three worlds.
By joining together the words the Vedas are studied.
The words tell what is written in Shashtras, Simritis and Puranas.
In letters are written the hymns discourses and lectures.
By means of letters is described the way of escape from dread and doubt.
The words narrate the religious rites worldly acts piety and religion.
In the entire visible world is contained the Indestructible Lord.
Nevertheless, O Nanak, the Supreme Lord remains unattached.
Slok
The Inaccessible Lord with pen in His hand scribed man's destiny on his forehead.
The Lord of peerless beauty is contained with (among) all.
Thine praises O Lord I cannot describe with my mouth.
Nanak is fascinated on beholding Thy sight and is devoted unto Thee.
Pauri.
O my Immovable and Imperishable Lord, O My Transcendent Lord the Destroyer of sin.
O Thou all-Pervading Perfect one. O Thou Destroyer of grief and Treasure of virtue.
O mortal comrade, O formless One, O Absolute Lord the support of all.
O Supporter of earth, O the ocean of excellences, who art ever possessed of discrimination.
O Remotest of the remote Lord God, Thou art, wert and shalt be.
O constant Companion of the Saints, Thou art the Support of the Supportless.
O Lord, I am a serf of Thine. I am without merit. No merit do I possess.
Grant me, Nanak the gift of Thy Name, that I may string and keep it in my mind.
Slok
The Divine Guru is my mother, the Divine Guru the father and the Divine Guru is my Lord and Supreme God.
The Divine Guru is my companion, the dispeller of spiritual ignorance and the Divine Guru is my relative and brother.
The Divine Guru is the giver and the teacher of God's Name and the Divine Guru is my infallible spell.
The Divine Guru is the images of peace truth and wisdom the Divine Guru is the philosopher's stone by touching which the mortal is saved.
The divine Guru is a place of pilgrimage and a tank of Nectar. By having a bath in Guru's Divine knowledge, man meets the Illimitable Master.
The Divine Guru is the Creator and the Destroyer of all the sins and the Divine Guru is the purifier of the impure.
The Divine Guru is from the beginning from the beginning of ages and in every age. The Divine Guru is the spell of God's Name by repeating which the mortal is saved.
My Master, take pity and unite me, a fool and a sinner, with the society of the Guru, by clinging to which I may swim across the sea of life.
The Divine Guru the True Guru is himself the Exalted Lord and the Great Lord. Unto the Godly Divine Guru. Nanak makes an obeisance.
Read this slok in the beginning and at the end.
In Gauri Pearl of peace 5th Guru.
Slok
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
I bow unto the Primordial Guru.
I bow unto the Guru of the primal age.
I make obeisance unto the True Guru.
I pay homage unto the venerable Divine Guru.
Ashatpadi.
Remember, remember God,
thus thou shalt attain peace and efface from within thy body, strife and anguish.
Remember the praise of the Filler of the world alone.
Numberless persons utter Lord's various Names.
The Vedas, Puranas and Simirtis of pure word,
are the creation of the One Word of Lord's Name.
He who treasures up even a particle of God's Name in his heart,
his praises cannot be recounted.
Who are desirous of Thine sight alone,
O Lord, save Nanak with those.
In the Sukhmani is the joy raining nectarean Name of the Lord.
There is peace within the mind of Lord's slaves. Pause
By Lord's meditation man enters not the womb.
By Lord's meditation the torture of death flees.
By Lord's meditation death is removed.
By Lord's meditation the enemy keeps away.
By remembering the Lord no obstacle is met.
By Lord's meditation man remains watchful night and day.
By Lord's meditation fear overtake not.
By Lord's meditation is sorrow troubles not.
By Lord's meditation is attained in the Saints society.
All the wealth, O Nanak, are in God's love.
In Lord's meditation are wealth mythical powers and nine treasures.
In Lord's meditation man obtains Divine knowledge, contemplation and essence of wisdom.
By Lord's meditation man obtain devotion, penance and worship.
By remembering the Lord, duality is removed.
By remembering the Lord, the merit of bathing at places of pilgrimage is obtained.
By remembering the Lord, the mortal receives honour in his court.
By remembering the Lord, the mortal accepts His Will to be sweet.
By remembering the Lord, man flowers and fruitions well.
They alone remember Him whom He Himself causes to remember.
Nanak, touches the feet of those persons.
Lord's meditation is the most exalted of all.
Through Master's meditation many have been saved.
Through Master's meditation, thirst is quenched.
Through Lord's meditation man comes to know everything.
By remembering the Lord the fear of Death is removed.
By remembering the Lord the desire is fulfilled.
By remembering the Lord mind's filth is removed,
and the ambrosial Name is absorbed in the heart.
The honourable Lord abides on the tongue of His saint.
Nanak is the slave of the slave of the Lord's slaves.
They who remember the Master are wealthy.
They, who remember the Master are honourable.
Acceptable are the persons who meditate in the Master.
The most distinguished are the men who meditate on the Master,
They who meditate on the Lord are without want.
They, who meditate on the Lord are the monarchs of all.
They, who meditate on the Lord dwell in peace.
They, who meditate on the Lord become immortal for ever.
They alone take to meditation unto whom He Himself is Merciful.
Nanak prays for the dust of the feet of God's servants.
They, who contemplate over the Master are philanthropical.
I am ever a sacrifice unto those who contemplate over the Master.
Beauteous are the faces of those who contemplate over the Master.
They who contemplate over the Master pass their life in peace.
They who contemplate over the Master conquer their mind.
They who contemplate over the Master have the pious way of life.
They who contemplate over the Master have manifold joys.
They who contemplate over the Master, abide near God.
By the favour of Saints they remain watchful night and day.
Nanak. Lord's meditation is obtained by perfect good luck.
Through Lord's meditation the tasks are accomplished.
Through Lord's meditation the mortal never grieves.
Through Lord's meditation man utters God's praises.
Through Lord's meditation man is absorbed in God.
Through Lord meditation he finds an immovable seat.
Through Lord's meditation man's lotus blooms.
Through Lord's meditation celestial strain resounds.
There is no end of limit to the peace which ensues by remembering the Lord.
Those persons on whom is Lord's grace ponder over Him.
Nanak has sought the asylum of such persons.
By remembering God the Saints become distinguished.
By remembering God the Vedas are composed.
By remembering God men become adepts, celibates and donors.
By remembering God, the low-born become renowned in four direction,
By remembering God the entire earth is installed.
Remember, remember God who is the cause of creation.
For His meditation God did make the whole creation.
The Formless Lord Himself is in the place where God is remembered.
Whom by His grace He imparts understanding,
O Nanak! that Guru-ward obtains the boon of God's meditation.
Slok.
O Thou Destroyer of pain and grief of the poor, Lord of every heart, and Thyself without a Master,
I have come under Thy protection, O Lord! be with Nanak.
Ashtpadi.
Where thou wilt find no mother, father, son, friend, and brother,
there, O My soul, God's Name shall be with thee as thy helper.
Where the very terrible myrmidon of Death, shall crush thee,
there the Name alone shall go with thee.
Where there will be very great obstacle,
God's Name shall emancipate thee in a moment there.
The mortal is not saved by performing many expiation acts.
The Name of God washes off millions of sins.
O my soul, through the Guru, utter the Name of God.
O Nanak thus shalt thou have many comforts.
The King of the whole worlds is unhappy.
But he who repeats God's Name becomes happy.
Though man be entangles in lacs and millions of bonds,
by uttering God's Name he is freed.
The manifold pleasures of riches allay not man's thirst.
By meditation on God's Name he is satiated.
On the way on which this man goes all alone,
there the Name of God is with him as a comforter.
Ever, meditate on such a Name O my soul.
Nanak through the Guru, the Supreme dignity is obtained.
Where man cannot be saved by lacs and millions of helping arms there,
by remembering the Name, he is saved immediately.
Where many misfortunes befall and ruin the man,
there the Name of God rescues him instantly.
Man dies and is born in many existences,
but he obtains rest by uttering God's Name.
The mortal is defiled by self-conceit. The fifth which is never washed away.
But the Name of God purges him of myriads of sins.
Such Name O my soul, repeat thou with love.
Nanak it is obtained in the saints society.
On the path whose miles cannot be counted,
God's Name shall there be the viaticum with thee.
The journey where there is arch pitch darkness,
there the light of God's Name shall be with thee.
On the path where there is no acquaintance of thine,
there God's Name shall be thy recoginser with thee.
Where there is very terrible heat and great sunshine,
there the Name of God shall be a shade over thee
Where, O man, thirst sucks out thy breath,
there, Nanak God's Name's Nectar shall rain on thee.
With the devotees God's Name is an article of every day use.
It gives peace to the hearts of holy persons.
God's Name is support of His slave.
By God's Name, millions of men have been saved.
The Saints utter God's praise day and night.
The Saints use God's Name as the medicine.
Of God's servant, God's Name is the treasure.
The Supreme Lord has given it as gift to him.
The Saints' mind and body are imbued with the bliss of One Lord's Love.
Nanak Divine knowledge is the livelihood of God's slave.
God's Name is the way of salvation to His slave.
God's servant is satisfied with the food of His Name.
God's Name is his serf's beauty and delight.
By uttering God's Name, obstacle never befall the man.
God's Name is his serf's glory.
Through God's Name his servant obtains honour.
God's Name is the enjoyment of yog method for his serf.
By uttering God's Name, there is no separation from Him.
God's slave is imbued with His Name's service.
Nanak worship the Bright Lord God.
God's Name is the treasure of wealth to His slave.
The wealth of God's Name the Lord Himself has given to His serf.
God's Name is the powerful protection of His servant.
God's servant knows naught but God's glory.
Like warp and woof, God's slave is imbued with God's Love.
In profound meditation he is intoxicated with Name's essence.
During the eight watches of the day the man of God repeats God's Name.
The Saint of God is distinguished and remains not obscure.
God's devotional service confers salvation on many.
Nanak with God's slave several are saved.
This Name of God is the elysian tree.
The singing of Lord God's praise is the cow of Gods.
God's discourse is the best of all.
By hearing the Name pain and sorrow are removed.
The praise of the Name abides within the mind of the saint.
By saints' influence all the sin flees.
The society of saints is obtained through the greatest good luck.
By saints service the Name is meditated upon.
There is nothing equal to God's Name.
Nanak some rare person receives the Name, through the Guru.
Slok
Many Shashtras and many Simirtis, have I seen and searched them all.
Nanak they equal not Lord God's invaluable Name.
Ashtpadi.
Recitation of religious books penance, religious discussions and all meditation.
The exposition of six school of philosophy and Hindu ceremonial books.
The practise of Yoga and the performance of religious rituals.
The abandonment of everything and wandering in forest.
The Performance of many efforts of various types.
Alms giving oblation to fire and bestowal of many jewels.
Cutting off the body into small pieces and making them an offering to fire.
The performance of fastings and vows of many varieties.
All these are not equal to the contemplation of Lord's Name.
Nanak even thought the Name be repeated only once under Guru's instruction.
One may roam about the nine regions of the earth and live a long life.
He may become a great anchoret and a penitent,
and may burn himself in fire.
He may make gifts of gold, horses known as excellent steeds and lands.
He may practise inner-washing and many meditative postures.
He may adopt Jain mortifying methods and great spiritual efforts.
He may have his body cut into small pieces.
Even then the filth of pride departs not.
There is nothing equal to God's Name.
Nanak, by uttering the Name, through the Guru the man obtains salvation.
Many desire giving up body at places of pilgrimage,
but ego and self-conceit are not removed from their mind.
Though man may practise purification day and night,
but filth of the heart departs no from his body.
Though man may subject his body to much mortification,
yet evil passions never abandon his soul.
Even though man may wash this transitory body with plenty of water,
how can this frail wall be cleansed?
O my soul! lofty is the praise of God's Name.
Nanak, the very great sinners have been saved by the Name.
Through excessive cleverness death's fear clings to the man.
By resorting to various efforts desire is not satiated.
By adopting various religious garbs the fire is not extinguished.
By millions of efforts the mortal becomes not acceptable on Lord's court.
Worldly love of Him is not released by repairing to the sky of the nether region,
he who is entangles in the net of mammon.
Death penalises all other works of man.
Save the meditation of the World-Lord the death heeds not anything even in the least.
By repeating God's Name sorrow is dispelled.
Nanak instinctively utters the Name of God.
He who prays for four cardinal boons,
should apply himself to the service of the holy-men.
If one wishes to efface one's agonies,
he should ever sing in his mind the Name of Lord God.
If man desires honour for himself,
he should renounce this self-conceit by associating with the saints.
If some one fears coming and going,
he ought to seek the protection of the holy persons.
The person who has thirst for Lord's sight,
Nanak is a sacrifice and devoted unto him.
Amongst all the men he is the supreme,
whose egotism is eradicated in the society of saints.
He who deems himself low,
is counted the highest of all.
He whose mind becomes the dust of all,
beholds Lord God's Name in every heart.
He, who effaces malice from his heart,
beholds the whole world as his friend.
The man who looks upon weal and woe alike,
is not affected by evil and good, O Nanak.
For the poor, thy Name is the wealth.
For the shelterless Thy name is the shelter.
Of the dishonoured Thou O Lord art the honour.
To all the mortals Thou givest gifts.
The Lord is the Doer and Prompter of actions.
He is the Knower of all the hearts.
Thine condition and estimation thou Thyself knowest.
Thou Thyself art imbued with Thyself, O Lord.
Thy praise can only be celebrated by Thee.
None else, O Nanak, knows Thy praise.
Of all the religions the best religion
is to repeat God's Name and to do pious deeds.
Of all the religious rites the best rite is,
to remove the filth of evil intellect by association with the saints.
Of all the efforts the best effort is to ever,
heartily utter the Name of God.
Of all the speeches the ambrosial speech is,
to hear God's praise and to repeat it with the tongue.
Of all the places, that heart is the best place,
wherein dwells the Name of God, O Nanak.
Slok.
O meritless and ignorant mortal that Lord do thou ever meditate upon.
Place Him in thy heart who made thee, O Nanak, Lord alone shall bear thee. company.
Ashtpadi.
O Mortal, think of the excellences of the All-Pervading Lord.
What thy origin is and what thou lookest like.
He, who made, adorned and bedecked thee,
and He who preserved thee in the fire of the womb.
Who he in thy childhood gave the mild to drink.
And He, who in thy prime of life gave thee food, comfort and understanding,
and who, when thou grew old, settled relation and friend on thee,
to put food, into thy mouth, when thou wast seated.
This meritless man appreciates not in the least, the goodness done to him.
O Lord, if thou pardon him, then alone, O Nanak, he can be emancipated.
By whose grace, thou residest in comfort on the earth,
and laughest with thine sons, brothers, friend and wife.
By whose favour thou drinkest cool water,
and havest soothing wind and priceless fire,
By whose favour, thou enjoyest all pleasure
and livest with all the necessaries.
Who gave thee hands, feet, ears, eyes and tongue.
Thou forsakest Him and attachest thyself to others
Such sins are clung to the blind foolish-man.
Nanak, thou Thyself save him, O Lord.
He, who is Protector of all from beginning to end,
Him, the ignorant man loves not.
From whose, service, he obtains the nine treasures,
with Him, the fool attaches not his mind.
The Lord who is, ever and ever, just present,
Him, the blind thinks to be far away.
By whose service he is to attain honour in Lord's Court,
the ignorant fool forgets Him.
Ever and ever, this man errs.
Nanak, the infinite Lord is the only Saviour.
Abandoning a jewel, man is engrossed with a shell.
He renounces truth and is pleased with falsehood.
What he is to leave, he deems that everlasting.
What is to happen, he recognises that to be distant.
What he has to part, he toils after that.
He spurns the Succourer who is ever with him.
He washes away and removes the sandal paste.
The donkey professes love for ashes alone.
The man has fallen into the terribly blind well.
Nanak, O Merciful Master, do Thou extricate him.
He belongs to the human species, but his acts are those of beasts.
He humbugs people day and night.
Outwardly wearing religious garbs, inwardly has the filth of worldliness.
Howsoever he may try to conceal, he cannot conceal his real self.
He makes a show of Divine Knowledge contemplation and ablution.
But to his mind is clung the dog of greed.
He has fire within and ashes without (on) his body.
With the stone around his neck how can he cross the unfathomable ocean?
He, within whose heart the Lord Himself abides,
Nanak that man merges into the Master.
By hearing alone, how can the blind man find the path?
Take his hand he shall reach the destination.
How can a deaf man understand the riddle?
When we say night, then, he understands day.
How can a dumb man sing Lord's staves?
Though he may make an effort, even then, his voice breads.
How can a cripple roam on a mountain?
His going there is not possible.
O Creator, embodiment of compassion, I humble make a supplication,
that Nanak may be saved through Thine favour.
The mortal thinks not of his succourer, who is with him.
He bears love to the one who is his enemy.
He abides in the house of sand.
He enjoys sports and pleasures of wealth.
He deems these revelments permanent. This is his mind's faith.
In his heart, the fool thinks not of death.
Enmity, strife, lust, wrath, worldly love,
falsehood, sin, excessive greed and deceit.
In their ways man has passed away many lives.
O Lord, redeem Nanak, by showing Thine mercy.
Thou art the Lord, I make this supplication unto Thee.
My soul and body are all Thine capital.
Thou art Mother and Father and we are Thine children.
In Thine grace lie many comforts.
No one Knows Thy limit.
Thou, O Wealthy Lord, art the Highest of the high.
The entire creation is strung on the thread.
What has sprung from thee that is in Thy command.
Thine condition and extent thou alone knowest.
Nanak, a slave of Thine is ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Slok.
He, who abandons God, the Giver and attaches himself to other pleasures,
O Nanak! shall nowhere succeed and without the name shall lose his honour.
Ashtpadi.
The Mortal obtains ten things and puts them behind.
For the sake of one thing, he forfeits his confidence.
If the Lord gives not even one thing, and takes, away the ten,
then, say, what can this fool do?
The Lord with whom force is of no avail,
unto Him ever make an obeisance.
All the comforts abide within the heart of him,
to whose mind the Master is sweet.
The person, who God has caused to obey His order,
O Nanak, he obtains all the things.
The Banker gives His countless capital to the mortal.
He eats, drinks and expends it with joy and pleasure.
If the Banker, afterwards, takes back some of his entrusted capital,
the ignorant man becomes angry in his mind.
By his own acts, he forfeits his credit.
The Lord, again, trusts him not.
He should place the thing before him, to whom it belongs,
and should most willingly obey his Lord's order.
There-at, the Lord will make him four-fold happy.
Nanak, the Lord is ever Merciful.
Know that, the various forms of worldly attachments,
are temporary and that they shall, assuredly, pass away.
Man falls in love with the shade of the tree,
when that vanishes, he mourns in his mind.
Whatever comes to view, that is transitory,
yet the man, the blindest of the blind, is clinging to that.
He, who gives his love to a passing traveler,
shall have nothing to hand thereby.
O my soul, peace bestowing is the love of God's name.
Nanak, God attaches to Himself those, unto whom He shows mercy.
Perishable are the body, wealth and all the relations.
Perishable are egotism, egoism and worldly valuables.
Perishable are dominion, youth, riches, and property.
Perishable are lust and dreadful wrath.
Perishable are chariots, elephants, horses and raiments.
False is the love of accumulation of wealth, beholding which man laughs.
False is the deceit, worldly love and ego.
False is to take pride on one's ownself.
Imperishable is the devotional service of God and saintly Guru's protection.
Nanak lives by continuously meditating God's feet.
Vain are the ears, which listen to slander of others.
Vain are the hands which steal the wealth of others.
Vain are the eyes which behold the beauty of another's wife.
Vain is the tongue which tastes dainties and other savours.
Vain are the feet, which run to do evil to others.
Vain is the mind which hankers after the wealth of others.
False is the body which does not do good to others.
False is the nose which inhales the smell of evil
Without understanding God every thing is perishable.
Fruitful is the body, O Nanak which takes the Name of Lord God.
Unfruitful is the life of the mammon worshipper.
Without Truth how can he be pure?
Unfruitful is the ignorant man's body without the Name.
From his mouth, foul smell issues forth.
Without Lord's remembrance day and night pass away in vain,
as the crop is ruined without rain.
Sans World-Lord's meditation all the works are vain,
as the money of the miserly person is useless.
Blest blest are those persons, within whose heart God's Name abides.
Nanak is a sacrifice and devoted unto them.
Man professes one thing and practices quite another.
In his heart there is no love, but with his mouth he talks tall.
The Wise Lord, who is the Inner Knower,
is not pleased with the outward garment of any.
He who practises not what he preaches to others,
shall come and go and be subject to birth and death.
He, in whose heart abides the Formless Lord,
with his instruction the world is saved.
Only they, who are pleasing to Thee, O Lord can know Thee.
Nanak is prostrate at the feet of those persons
Make supplication before the Supreme Being, who knows all things.
His creatures, He Himself honours.
He Himself and by Himself decides.
To One He shows Himself a far and to another He shows Himself near.
He is beyond all effort and cleverness.
He fully knows the way of the human soul.
He attaches to His skirt Him, whom he likes.
The Lord is contained in all the places and inter-spaces.
He, to whom God shows favour is His slave.
Every moment, O Nanak meditate upon the Lord.
Slok
May my lust, wrath, avarice worldly love, and egotism depart.
Nanak has sought Thy protection O Lord, My Divine Guru show mercy unto me.
Ashtpadi.
By whose grace thou eatest the thirty six delicacies,
bear that Lord in thy mind.
By whose favour, thou appliest perfume to thy body,
thou shalt obtain the supreme dignity by remembering Him.
By whose kindness thou dwellest comfortably in thy palace,
ever meditate on Him within thy mind.
By whose Kindness, thou abidest in comfort with thy family,
repeat thou His name with thy tongue for all the eight watches.
By whose favour thou enjoyest love and pleasures,
O Nanak! constantly meditate on Him who is worthy of meditation.
By whose grace thou wearest silks and silk clothes,
why shouldest thou forsake Him and be enamoured of others?
By whose favour thou sleepest on the comfortable bed.
O my soul, throughout the eight watches (of the day) sing His praise.
by whose grace every one honours thee,
with thy mouth and tongue celebrate the eulogies of Him.
By whose grace thy faith is preserved,
my soul, continuously meditate on the Supreme Lord alone.
by contemplating over the Venerable Lord, thou shalt obtain honour in His Court.
Like this, O Nanak thou shalt go to thy home with honour.
By whose grace thou hast healthy golden body,
fix thy attention on that loving Lord.
By whose favour thy honour is preserved,
thou shalt obtain peace by uttering the praise of that Lord God.
By whose grace all thy sins are screened,
seek the protection of that Lord Master.
By whose kindness none can equal thee, O my soul.
At ever breath remember the most high Lord,
By whose goodness thou hast attained the scarcely procurable human body,
O Nanak, perform the devotional service of that Lord,
By whose favour thou wearest ornaments,
my soul why art thou sluggish in remembering Him?
By whose grace thou hast horses and elephants to ride,
never forget that Lord from your mind.
By whose favour, thou hast gardens property and wealth,
keep that Lord in deep within thy heart.
O my mind, he who has constructed of thy body frame work,
remember Him, while standing or sitting.
Remember Him, who is the One Invisible Lord.
He shall save thee both here and hereafter.
By whose grace thou givest alms and bestowest plenty,
O man during the eight watches of the day, meditate upon Him.
By whose grace, thou performest religious rites and worldly duties,
remember that Lord, with every breath of thine.
By whose favour thou hast the beauteous form,
contemplate over that, ever Incomparable Lord.
By whose kindness thou possessest high caste,
ever remember that Lord day and night.
By whose grace thy honour is preserved,
utter His praise Nanak through Guru's kindness.
By whose grace thou hearest melody with thine ears,
By whose grace thou beholdest wonders,
By whose grace thou utterest nectarean words with the tongue,
By whose grace thou abidest in ease and comfort,
By whose grace thine hands move and do the work,
By whose grace thou completely flourisheth,
By whose favour thou obtainest the supreme rank,
By whose favour thou shalt merge in the celestial bliss,
Forsaking such Lord, why shouldest thou attach thyself to another?
By Guru, grace awaken thy mind to thy God, O Nanak.
By whose grace thou, are distinguished the world over,
forget not ever, that Lord from thy mind.
By whose kindness, thou hast acquired prestige and power,
O my foolish soul, do thou meditate upon Him.
By whose kindness all thy works are accomplished,
within thy mind deem Him to be ever close by.
By whose kindness thou obtainest the truth,
O my soul get thou merged into Him.
By whose kindness and all are saved,
Nanak continuously utters the Name of Him.
He, whom God Himself causes to repeat, repeats His Name.
He alone sings God's praise whom he Himself causes to sing.'
By Lord's grace the light dawns.
Through Lord's kindness the heart lotus blooms.
When the Lord is mightily pleased, He dwells within man's mind.
By Lord favour man's intellect becomes sublime.
All the treasure are in Thine mercy, O Lord,
By himself no one attains anything.
The creatures apply themselves to the duties, Thou hast appointed them, O Lord God.
In their hand, O Nanak, lies but nothing.
Slok.
That Supreme Lord is Unapproachable and Unfathomable.
Whosoever utters His Name, he is emancipated.
Nanak supplicates, O my friend!
hear the wonderful story the saintly persons.
Ashtpadi.
In the Saints congregation the face becomes bright.
In the saints congregation all the filth is removed.
In the saints congregation the pride is effaced.
In the saints congregation Divine knowledge is revealed.
In the saints congregation the Lord is known to be near.
In the saints congregation all the strifes are settled.
In the saints congregation the Name jewel is obtained.
In the saints congregation man strives for one Lord alone.
Which mortal can narrate the saints praise?
Nanak, the glory of the saints is merged in that of the Lord.
In the society of saints the incomprehensible Lord is met.
In the society of saints the mortal ever flowers.
In the society of saints the five enemies are restrained.
In the society of saints man enjoys the Nectarean Name essence.
In the society of saints one becomes the dust of all.
In the society of saints the speech becomes fascinating.
In the society of saints the mind goes not anywhere.
In the society of saints the mind attains stability.
In the society of saints it gets rid of the worldly valuables.
In the society of saints O Nanak the Lord is mightily pleased.
By associating with the saints all the enemies become friends.
By associating with the saints man becomes very pure.
By associating with the saints he bears enmity to none.
By associating with the saints man's feet walk not astray.
By associating with the saints no one seems evil.
By associating with the saints man knows the supreme joy.
By associating with the saints man loses the fever of ego.
By associating with the saints man sheds all self-conceit.
The Lord Himself knows the greatness of the man of faith.
Nanak the man of faith is akin to the Lord.
In the company of the pious persons the mind never wanders.
In the company of the pious persons it ever attains peace.
In the company of the pious person man receives the Incomprehensible Name commodity.
In the company of the pious persons man endured the unendurable.
In the company of the pious persons the mortal abides in the lofty place.
In the company of the pious persons, the mortal reaches the Lord's Mansion.
In the company of the pious persons mortal's faith is completely established.
In the company of the pious persons one meditates on the Supreme Lord alone.
In the company of saints, man obtains the Name treasure.
Nanak is a sacrifice unto the pious persons.
By association with saints one's family is all saved.
By association with the saints one's friends, intimates and relations are redeemed.
By association with the saints that wealth is obtained,
from which wealth everyone gains advantage.
The Righteous Judge performs service for him, who associates with the saints.
The angles and gods sing the praise of him, who associates with the saints.
By association with the saints the sins flee away.
By association with the saints the mortal sings the praise of the Ambrosial Name.
By association with the saints man comes to have access to all the places.
Nanak, by association with the saints man's birth becomes profitable.
In the society of saints one faces not any misery.
By beholding and meeting the saints the mortal becomes happy.
By associating with the saints blemishes are removed.
By associating with the saints the hell is avoided.
By associating with the saints the mortal remains happy in this world and the Yonder one.
By associating with the saints they who are separated from God meet Him.
One obtains the fruit he desires,
by associating with the saints and one departs not empty-handed.
The Supreme Lord abides in the mind of a saint.
Nanak is saved by hearing God's Name from the saints' tongue.
In the guild of saints hear God's Name.
In the guild of saints sing God's praises.
In the guild of saints man forgets not the Lord from his mind.
In the guild of saints he is assuredly saved.
In the guild of saints the Lord becomes sweet unto the man.
In the guild of saints God is seen in every heart.
In the saints congregation man becomes obedient to the Lord.
In the saints congregation I have obtained salvation.
In the saints congregation all the maladies are healed.
Nanak by good destiny the saints are met.
The Vedas know not the praise of the holy men.
They describe them as much as they have heard regarding them.
The greatness of the saints is beyond the three qualities.
All pervading is the praise of the saints.
There is no limit to the glory of the saints.
Ever infinite is the renown of the saint.
The glory of a saint is the highest of the high.
The honour of saint is the greatness of the great.
The celebrity of saint behoves the saint alone.
O Nanak, between His saint and the Lord there is no difference, my brother.
Slok.
He, within whose mind is the True Name, who with his mouth utters the True Name,
and who beholds no other but the unique Lord,
Nanak these are the qualities of the man who knows God.
Ashtpadi.
The Knower of God, ever remains unattached,
like the lotus, which abides detached in water.
The knower of God is ever stainless,
as the Sun gives comfort to all.
The Knower go God looks on all as equal,
like the wind that blows alike on the King and the poor.
The knower of God has even patience,
like the earth, which one man digs and another smears with sandal.
This is the attribute of the knower of God.
Nanak, his inherent nature is all-purifying like the fire.
God-awakened is the purest of the pure,
as filth attaches not to water.
The mind of the God-awakened is enlightened like,
the firmament above the earth.
To the God-awakened a friend and a foe are the same.
The God-awakened has no pride.
The God-awakened is the highest of the high.
Within his mind, he is the most humble of all.
Only those persons, become God-divines,
Nanak, whom the Lord Himself makes so.
The God-divine is the dust of all.
The God-divine realises the spiritual bliss.
The God-divine shows kindness to all.
From the God-divine nothing evil emanates.
The God-divine is, ever impartial.
Ambrosia rains from the glance of him, who knows God.
The knower of God is free from entanglements.
Pure is the way of life of the knower of God.
Divine knowledge is the food of the man who knows God.
Nanak, the Lord's knower is absorbed in Lord's meditation alone.
Lord's-divine has his hope on the One Master.
Lord-divine suffers no doom.
Lord's realiser is steeped in humility.
Lord's realiser takes delight in doing good to others.
Lord's realiser has no worldly entanglements.
Lord's realiser takes captive his wandering mind.
Very sublime are the act of the man, who realises the Lord
The Lord realiser fruitions well.
In the company of the Lord's realiser all are saved.
Nanak, the whole world praises the man, who realises his Lord.
Lord's Divine loves the Lord alone.
The Lord abides with the one who knows God.
God's Name is the mainstay of the God's divine.
God's Name is the family and retinue of the one who understands the Lord.
For ever and aye, the Lord's divine is wakeful.
The Lord's divine discards his haughty intellect.
Within the mind of the Lord's divine is the supreme bliss.
There is eternal happiness in the home of the Lord's divine.
The man who knows God abides in celestial peace.
Nanak the knower of God meets not death.
The man, who knows the Lord is called a Brahm-gyani.
The man, who knows the Lord loves the one God alone.
The man, who knows the Lord is free from cares.
Pure is the doctrine of him, who knows God.
He is a Brahm-gyani, whom the Lord himself makes.
Great is the glory of the man who knows God.
The sight of the man who knows God is obtained through the greatest good fortune.
Be thou devoted and dedicated unto the man who knows God.
The great God, Shiva searches for the man who knows God.
Nanak the Brahm-gyani, is Himself the Exalted Lord.
The man who knows God is priceless.
Every thing abide within the mind of the man who knows God.
Who can know the secret of the man who knows God.
Ever make Obeisance unto the God-divine.
Even half a letter of the praise of the God-divine cannot be narrated.
The God-Divine is the Lord of all.
Who can describe the limits of the man who knows God?
Only the Brahm-gyani, knows the state of the Brahm-gyani.
The man who knows God is without ends and limits.
Nanak ever prostrates himself to the man who knows the Lord.
The knower of God is the creator of the whole world.
The knower of God lives for ever and dies not.
The knower of God is the Bestower of the way to salvation to the mortal.
The knower of God is the perfect Lord Creator.
The knower of God is the patron of the patronless.
The hand of the knower of God extends over the entire humanity.
The knower of God owns the entire universe.
The knower of God is himself the Formless Lord.
The glory of the Brahm-gyani behoves the Brahm-gyani alone.
Nanak the mortal who knows God is the Lord of all.
Slok
He who enshrines the Name in his heart,
who sees the Lord amongst all,
and who at every moment bows to the Lord.
Nanak, such a saint who touches not anybody emancipates all.
Ashtpadi.
He, whose tongue touches not falsehood,
within whose mind is the love for the sight of the pure One,
Whose eyes see not the beauty of others wives.
Who serves the holy and bears love to the saints,
who with his ears, hear not slander of anyone,
who deems himself the worst of all,
who by Guru's grace renounces wickedness,
who banishes his heart's desires from his soul,
and who conquers his lust and is free from the five deadly sins.
Nanak, amongst million there is scarcely any such 'Aparas' (above attraction).
He is a Vaishnav with whom He, the Lord is pleased.
Who abides apart from God's mammon,
and who in performing good acts looks not for reward.
Pure is the faith of that worshipper of Vishnu.
He entertains no desire of reward for anything.
He is solely devoted to Lord's meditation and singing His praises.
Within his mind and body is the contemplation of the World Cherisher.
He is kind to all the creatures.
He Himself holds fast to Lord's Name and causes others to repeat it.
Nanak such a Vaishnav obtains the supreme salvation.
He is the Lord's worshipper who enshrines affection for Lord's devotional service.
He forsakes the company of all wicked men,
and from his mind all superstition is removed.
He realises the Supreme Lord to be amongst all and adores Him alone.
In the saints' congregation he washed off the filth of sins.
Supreme becomes the wisdom of such a Bhagauti.
For ever and aye. he performs the service of his Lord.
His soul and body he dedicates to his Lord's love.
God's feet, he places within his mind.
Nanak such a Bhagauti attains to the Prosperous Lord.
He is a scholar, who instructs his mind.
He searches for Lord's Name in his heart,
and drinks the exquisite Nectar of Master's Name.
The world lives by the instruction of that pandit.
Who implants God's gospel in his heart,
that pandit enters not in existences, again.
He understands the essence of the Vedas, Puranas and Simritis,
and recognises the discernible in the undiscernible one,
and instructs all the four castes,
Nanak, I ever make obeisance unto that pandit.
The comprehension of the seed of God's Name, has been imparted to every one.
Let anyone of the four castes repeat the Name.
Who-so-ever utters it, he gets emancipated.
Some rare person attains it by association with the saints.
By His grace, the Lord places His Name in the mind,
and thus even the beasts goblins and the stony fools swim across.
Lord's Name is the panacea of all the ills.
Singing of Lord's praise is the embodiment of beatitude and salvation.
By no other way or any religiosity can God's Name be gained.
Nanak he alone obtains it in whose destiny it is so writ since the very beginning.
He, within whose mind the Supreme Lord has acquired dwelling,
goes by the Name of a true slave of the Lord.
He comes to have the vision of the all-pervading.
With the sentiment of Lord's slaves slave, he obtains Him.
The serf of God, who, ever deems Him to be the nearest of the near,
becomes acceptable in His court.
To His servant, the Master Himself shows mercy.
Then that servant attains to all knowledge.
Dealing with all the men, he remains unattached at heart,
such is the way of Lord's attendant, O Nanak!
He who in his heart loves Lord's ordinance,
is said to be the man having salvation while alive.
As is joy so is sorrow for him.
In that state, there is everlasting happiness and no separation from God.
As is gold, so is dust for him.
As is nectar, so is sour poison for him.
To him as is honour, so is dishonour.
As is the pauper, so is the king.
He who deems that what God puts in vogue, is the proper way;
O Nanak, that man is said to be emancipated while still alive.
All the places belong to the Supreme Lord.
In whatever houses the Lord places the creatures similar is the Name, they acquire.
The Lord Himself is able to act and cause others to act.
Whatever pleases the Master, that ultimately comes to pass.
God has extended Himself by being in endless waves.
The plays of the Supreme One cannot be known.
As is the understanding, God gives so is the enlightenment.
The Exalted Lord, the Creator is Imperishable.
Ever, ever and ever He is Merciful.
By remembering and remembering Him, Nanak has been enraptured.
Slok
Good many men praise the Lord, who has neither end not limit.
The Master has created His creation in many ways and of various kinds.
Ashtpadi.
Many millions are His worshippers.
Many millions are the performers of religious and worldly deeds.
Many millions have become dwellers at places of pilgrimage.
Many millions wander as anchorets in the forest.
Many millions are the listeners of Vedas.
Many millions become penitents.
Many millions enshrine Lord's meditation in their heart.
Many millions poet deliberate over the Lord through poetry.
Many millions meditate on His ever new names.
Even then, O Nanak they find not the Creator's limit.
Many myriads are self-conceited.
Many myriads are blindly ignorant.
Many myriads are stone-hearted misers.
Many myriads are dry and unsusceptible at heart.
Many myriads steel others wealth.
Many myriads indulge in slandering others.
Many myriads take pain in amassing wealth.
Many myriads wander in foreign lands.
To whatever Thou attachest the mortals, thereto do they attach.
Nanak, the Creator alone knows Creator's creation.
Many millions are the seers celibates and Yogis.
Many millions are the kings who enjoy pleasures.
Many millions of birds and serpents have been created.
Many millions of stones and trees have been produced.
Many millions of winds, waters and fires, there are.
Many million are the countries and regions of earth.
Many millions are the moon, the suns, and the stars.
Many millions are the demigods demons and Indras wearing crowns over heads.
The Lord has strung the entire creation in His strung.
Whomsoever the Lord is pleased with him. He emancipates.
Many millions abide in the dispositions of activity, darkness and calmness.
There are many millions of Vedas, Puranas, Simirtis and Shastras.
Many millions of oceans with pearls have been made.
Many millions are the beings of various descriptions.
Many millions are made who live-long.
(By Lord's order) many millions of hills and mountains have become of gold.
Many millions are the high-ranking Gods, celestial singers and Satans.
Many millions are evil spirits ghosts, swines and tigers.
The Lord is near all, yet far from all.
Nanak the Lord is filling every thing, yet He Himself remains apart.
Millions upon millions are the dwellers of the under-worlds.
Millions upon millions are the dwellers of hell and heaven.
Millions upon millions are born, live, and die.
Millions upon millions go round in many existences.
Many millions eat whilst sitting idle.
Many millions are wearied with labour.
Many millions are created wealthy.
Many millions are engrossed in the anxiety of wealth.
Where-so-ever the Lord wills there He keeps the mortals.
Nanak everything is in the Lord's hands.
Many millions have become lovers of Lord.
They come to bear affection for the Lord's Name.
Many millions search for the Lord,
and find the Supreme One within their mind.
Many millions have thirst for Lord's sight.
Them does meet the Imperishable Lord.
Good many millions pray for the saints society.
They are imbued with the love of the Transcendent Lord.
With whom the Lord himself is well pleased,
ever blessed are those persons, O Nanak!
There are good many millions of the sources of creation and continents.
Many millions are the skies and solar systems.
There have been several myriads of Incarnations.
In various ways the Lord has spread Himself.
Many a time was the extension extended.
Ever and ever the Unique Lord remains the same One.
Many millions of beings the Lord has made of good many descriptions.
From the Lord they emanated and into the Lord shall they be absorbed.
His limit no one knows.
Nanak that Lord is all by Himself.
Millions upon millions are the slaves of the Transcendent Lord,
and their souls are enlightened.
Many millions are the knower of the reality,
and with their eyes, they ever behold the One Lord.
Many millions drink the Name nectar.
They become immortal and love for ever and aye.
Millions upon millions sing the praises of the Name.
They are absorbed in Divine delight and Eternal Beatitude.
His servants, He remembers with every breath.
Nanak they are the beloveds of the Supreme Lord.
Slok
The Lord alone is the Doer of deeds. There is no other than He.
Nanak is a sacrifice unto Him. He the Lord is contained in water land, under -world and the sky.
Ashtpadi.
The Doer and Prompter of deeds is capable to do everything.
Whatever pleases Him that comes to pass.
In an instant, He creates and destroys.
He has no end or limits.
By His fiat He has installed the earth and has kept it without support.
What is created by His order, ultimately, merges into His order.
High and low occupations are according to His will.
By His order the beings of various colours and types are fashioned.
Having created the creation, He beholds His own greatness.
Nanak the Lord is contained in all things.
If it pleases the Lord man obtains salvation.
If it pleases the Lord then He makes the stones swim.
If it pleases the Lord He preserves the body without breath.
If it pleases the Lord man then utter the praises of God.
If it pleases the Lord, He then saves the sinners.
The Lord Himself does and Himself deliberates.
He Himself is Lord of both the ends (worlds).
The Knower of hearts sports and enjoys.
He causes man to do the work, which He wills.
Nanak sees none other than Him.
Say, what can be accomplished by man?
What pleases Him, he causes that to be done.
If it lay in mortal's hand then he would take everything.
Whatever pleases Him, that He does.
Through ignorance, man is engrossed in sin.
If he knows (God), he would save himself.
Deluded by doubt his mind wanders in ten directions.
In a moment it returns after going round the four corners.
He whom the Lord mercifully grants His meditation
O Nanak, that man is absorbed in His Name.
In an instant He can make a groveling worm a king.
The Transcendent Lord is the Patroniser of the humble.
Him, who is totally obscure,
the Lord can at once render himfamous in the ten directions.
On whom he bestows His favours,
the World-Lord takes not the accounts of him.
Soul and body are all His capital.
Every heart, the Perfect Lord illumines.
His own handi-work, He has Himself made.
Nanak lives by beholding His greatness.
This mortal's power is not in his own hands.
The cause of causes is the Lord of all.
The helpless mortal is at Lord's command.
What please Him, that does, ultimately come to pass.
Sometimes man abides in exaltation and sime times in debasement.
Sometimes he is grieved with sorrow and sometimes he laughs with delight and joy.
Sometimes slander and worry are his occupation.
Sometimes he is up in heaven and sometimes down in the under-world.
Sometimes he is the knower of Lord's knowledge.
Nanak the Lord is the Uniter of man with Himself.
Sometimes man dances in various ways.
Sometimes he remains asleep day and night.
Sometimes he is terrible in his mighty wrath.
Sometimes he is the dust of all men's feet.
Sometimes, he sits as a great king.
Sometimes he wears the attire of a lowly beggar.
Sometimes he falls into evil repute.
Sometimes he is called extremely good.
As the Lord keeps him, so does he remains.
By the grace of the Guru Nanak tells the truth.
As a scholar, sometimes, man delivers lecturers.
As a mute ascetic, sometimes he practises contemplation.
Sometimes he takes bath at the banks of holy places.
Sometimes as an adept and a striver, he preaches divine sermons with his mouth
Some times, man becomes an insect, an elephant or a moth,
and continuously wanders in many existences.
Like a guiser he is seen assuming various disguises.
As it pleases the Lord, so does He make him dance.
Whatever pleases Him that alone happens.
Nanak there is no other second than He.
Sometimes this man obtains saints society.
From that place he returns not again.
Within his mind dawns the light of Divine knowledge.
That abode is imperishable.
His soul and body are tinged with the love of One's Name.
He ever abides with the Supreme Lord.
As water comes and gets blended with water,
so does his lights blend with the Supreme Light.
His coming and going end and he attains rest.
Nanak is ever devoted unto the Lord.
Slok
The humble man abides in peace. By stilling his ego he behaves meekly.
The very haughty persons, O Nanak, are consumed by their pride.
Ashtpadi.
He is whose mind is the pride of kingship,
becomes a hell-dweller and a dog.
He, who haughtily deems himself youthful,
becomes a worm of ordure.
He, who calls himself man of good actions,
comes, goes and wanders in many existences.
He, who takes pride of his wealth and land,
is stupid, blind and ignorant.
He, in whose heart, the Lord mercifully plants meekness,
O Nanak, obtains salvation here and peace here after.
Who being wealthy feels proud of his riches,
shall not take even even a straw with him.
He who sets his hope on his large army and men,
in a moment he shall be destroyed.
He who deems himself the strongest of all,
shall in a trice becomes ashes.
who in his pride thinks naught of anyone,
The Righteous Judge will disgrace him.
The person, whose self-conceit is effaced by Guru's grace,
shall become acceptable in God's court, O Nanak.
If man does millions of good acts and possesses pride,
he incurs only trouble and all his acts are vain.
He, who does various penances in pride,
is born again and again, in hell and paradise.
He, whose soul, inspite of making many efforts, is not softened say,
how can he go to God's court?
He who calls himself good,
goodness does not draw near him.
He whose mind is rendered the dust of all men's feet,
pure is the celebrity of him, Says Nanak.
So long as he thinks that he does something,
till then he has absolutely no peace.
As long as this man deems that he is the doer of something,
until then he wanders in the wombs for different existences.
As long as he deems one man an enemy and another a friend,
so long his mind is not at rest.
So long as the man is intoxicated with the love of mammon,
till then the Lord of law inflicts punishment on him.
By Lord's grace, mortal's shackles are shattered.
By Guru's kindness, O Nanak egotism is effaced.
Earning a thousand, man runs after a lakh.
Satisfaction he attains not in his pursuit of wealth.
Man indulges in the enjoyment of many evil passions,
but he is not satiated, and kills himself by hankering after them.
Without contentment, no one is sated.
Like the objects of a dream, all his works are vain.
Through the love of God's name, all the peace is gained.
By great good fortune, only a few obtain the name.
The Lord Himself is the cause of causes.
For ever and aye, O Nanak, repeat God's Name.
Thy Doer and Prompter is the creator alone.
What is that deliberation, which is in this man's hand?
As is the glance, God casts, so does man become.
That Master is all by Himself.
Whatever He has done that is according to His pleasure.
He is far from all and yet with all.
He understands, beholds and exercises judgement.
He Himself is one and Himself many.
He neither dies nor perishes and neither He comes nor goes.
Nanak, He ever remains diffused among all.
He Himself instructs and Himself understands.
The Lord himself is blended with all.
His expanse, He has Himself made.
Everything is His, He is the creator.
Say, can anything be done without Him?
In places and interspaces, the One Lord is contained.
Of His dramas, He Himself is the Actor.
He exhibits plays and infinite are His pleasures.
He is in the soul and the soul is in His ownself.
Nanak, his worth cannot be told.
True, True, True is the Lord Master.
By Guru's favour, some rare person describes Him.
True, True, True is He, who has created all.
Out of millions, scarcely any one knows Him.
Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful is thine form, O Lord.
Thou art exceedingly beauteous, limitless and Incomparable.
Pure, pure, pure is thy Gurbani.
Everyone who repeats and hears it with his ears,
becomes pure, pure, pure.
With heartily love, Nanak repeats the Name.
Slok
The person who seeks the shelter of the saints, that person is saved.
By slandering the saints, O Nanak the mortal is born again and again.
Ashtpadi.
By accusing the saints man's life is shortened.
By accusing the saints man escapes not from the Deaths couriers.
By accusing the saints all happiness vanishes.
By accusing, the saints, the mortal falls into hell.
By accusing the saints, understanding becomes impure.
By accusing the saints, man loses his celebrity.
None can save him who is accursed of the saints.
By accusing the saints the place is defiled.
If the compassionate saints show him mercy,
Nanak, even a slander is saved in the company of the saint.
By slandering the saints man becomes wry-faced.
By slandering the saints, he crows like a raven.
By slandering the saints, man gets a snake's birth.
By slandering the saints, he is born in worm like creeping existences.
By slandering the saints, he burns in the fire of desire.
By slandering the saints, the mortal deceives everyone.
By slandering the saints, man's entire influence departs.
By slandering the saints, man becomes the meanest of the mean.
For the slanderer of the saint there is place of rest.
Nanak, if it pleases the saints, then, he too obtains salvation.
The slanderer of the saint is the extreme evil-doer.
The slanderer of the saint has not a moment's rest.
The slanderer of the saint is a great butcher.
The slanderer of the saint is accursed of the Lord.
The slanderer of the saint loses his kingdom.
The slanderer of the saint becomes afflicted and poor.
The slanderer of the saint contracts all the aliments.
The slanderer of the saint ever suffers separation.
The slanderer of the saint is the sin of all the sins.
Nanak, if it pleases the saint then, even he shall be emancipated.
The saints' slanderer, is ever impure.
The saints' slanderer, is no man's friend.
The saints' slanderer, is awarded punishment.
The saints' slanderer, is abandoned by all.
The saints' slanderer, is exceedingly proud.
The saints' slanderer, is ever a sinner.
The saints' slanderer, continues coming and going.
The saints' slanderer, gets devoid of peace.
The saints' slanderer, has no abiding place.
Nanak, if it pleases the saint, then, he unites him with himself.
The saints' calumniator breaks down half-way.
The saints' calumniator can accomplish task.
The saints' evil-wisher is made to wander into the wilderness.
The saints' evil-wisher is thrown in a desolate place.
The saints' evil-wisher is hollow from within,
as the corpse of a dead man is without breath.
The saints' calumniator has root whatever.
He himself eats what he himself did sow.
None else can be the protector of the calumniator of the saints.
Nanak, if it pleases the saint, then he saves him.
The saints' slanderer bewails, in such a way,
as a fish wriggles in agony without water.
The saints' calumniator is ever hungry and is not satiated,
as the fire is not satisfied with fuel.
The saints' calumniator is left alone,
like the miserable spurious sesame stalk in the field.
The saints' calumniator is devoid of faith.
The saints' calumniator ever utters falsehood.
The fate of the calumniator is so ordained from the beginning.
Nanak, whatever pleases Him, that takes place.
The maligner of the saint becomes deformed.
The maligner of the saint received punishment in God's court.
The maligner of saint is ever on the verge of death.
The maligner of the saint hangs between life and death.
The hope of the maligner of the saint is not fulfilled.
The maligner of the saint departs disappointed.
By maligning the saint none attains stability.
As is the Lord's will, so does man become.
No one can efface the past actions.
Nanak, He the True Lord, knows everything.
All the hearts are His, He is the Creator.
Ever and ever, I bow unto Him.
Praise thou the Lord day and night.
With every breath and morsel of thine, meditate on Him.
Everything which he choose to do, comes to pass.
As God makes the man, so does he become.
He Himself is the Doer of His play.
Who else can say of deliberate upon it?
God gives His Name to those unto whom He shows His mercy.
Those person, O Nanak are very fortunate.
Slok.
Abandon thy cleverness, O good men and remember Lord God, the king.
Treasure in thy heart thy hope in one God and thine distress, doubt and dread shall depart O Nanak.
Ashtpadi.
Know that reliance on man is all in vain.
The illustrious Lord alone is the Giver.
By whose gifts man remains satiated,
and he feels not thirst, again.
The One Lord Himself destroys and projects.
Nothing is in man's hand.
Peace ensues from understanding His order.
String His Name and wear it around thy neck.
Remember, remember, remember that Lord,
O Nanak, thus, no obstacle shall come in thy way.
Utter the praise of the Formless One in thy heart.
My soul, practise thou the works of righteousness.
By drinking the Name Nectar thy tongue will become pure,
and thou shalt render thy soul ever comfortable.
With thine eyes see the wondrous play of the Lord.
By associating with the saints congregation, all other associations vanish.
With thy feet walk the way of the World-Lord.
By contemplating over God, even for a moment, the sins are washed off.
Perform God's service and hear God's discourse.
Like this thy countenance shall be bright in God's court, O Nanak.
Very fortunate are those persons in the world,
who ever and ever chant God's glory.
They who meditate on Lord's Name,
are accounted wealthy in the world.
Who with their soul, body and mouth repeat the Name of Supreme God,
know that they are ever and ever happy.
He who recognises the only One and the One Unique Lord,
obtains the knowledge of this world and the next one.
He whose mind is won over to the Name,
shall O Nanak know the Pure One.
Who by Guru's favour, understands his ownself,
know that his desire is quenched.
The man of God, who in the guild of saints utters Lord God's praises,
gets exempt from all the ailments.
He who night and day chants only the praise of the Lord,
remains detached in his household.
The man who pins his hope on God alone,
for him Death's noose is cut.
He in whose mind is the hunger of the Supreme Lord,
suffers no pain, O Nanak!
Who with his mind and heart remembers Lord God,
he the saint is comfortable and wavers not.
The servant unto whom his Master shows mercy,
say of whom should he be afraid?
As the Lord is so does He appear unto him.
In His creation the Master Himself is contained.
Searching searching and searching ultimately the mortal succeeds.
By Guru's grace he comes to know the whole reality.
When I look then I see God at the root of all the thing.
Nanak He Himself is minute and Himself great.
Nothing is born and nothing dies.
His plays He Himself enacts.
Coming and going visible and invisible,
and the entire world, He has made obedient to Himself.
He is all by Himself. Himself He is contained amongst all.
Employing various devices, He makes and unmaked.
He is Imperishable and nothing of Him is frangible.
He is lending support to the Universe.
Lord's glory is unapprehensible and inscrutable.
Nanak if He causes man to remember Him then does he remember Him.
They who know the Lord are glorious.
The whole world is saved by their instruction.
Lord's slave save all.
By associating with the slaves of the Lord calamity is forgotten.
The Merciful Master unites them with Himself.
By uttering the Guru's hymns they become Jubilant.
Only that man applies himself to His service,
to whom with good fortune God shows mercy.
They who utter the Name obtain rest.
Nanak deem those persons as noble.
Whatever the saint does he does for Lord's love.
For ever and aye he abides with God.
He is pleased at the occurrence of what is naturally to occur.
He recognises Him as the Creator.
Lord's doing is sweet unto His slave.
As the Lord is so He appears unto him.
He is absorbed in Him from whom he had sprung.
He is the treasure of peace. This honour becomes him alone.
To His slave God Himself has given honour.
Nanak know that the Lord and His slave are one and the same.
Slok.
The Lord is replete with all powers and is the knower of our troubles.
Nanak is a sacrifice unto Him, by whose remembrance man is saved.
Ashtpadi.
The world -cherisher is the Mender of the broken.
He Himself cherishes all the sentient beings.
Within whose mind is the anxiety of all,
none returns empty-handed from Him.
O my soul, ever meditate thou on the Lord.
The Imperishable Lord is all-in-all.
By mortal's own doing nothing can be done,
even though he may desire it hundreds of times.
Without Him, nothing is of any avail unto thee.
Salvation is attained by repeating the Name of God alone, O Nanak.
If one is beauteous, by himself he fascinates not others.
It is the Lord's light, which looks beautiful among all the bodies.
Becoming rich why should any one feel proud,
when all the riches are His gifts.
If one calls himself a great hero,
what effort can he make without obtaining power from the Lord?
If some one sets himself as a man of charity,
him the Donor deems to be a fool.
Whose ailment of ego is cured by the Guru's favour,
Nanak that man is ever healthy.
As a pillar supports a palace,
similarly the word of the Guru, supports the soul.
As a stone floats when put on a boat,
so is the mortal saved by clinging to the Guru's feet.
As a lamp gives light in darkness so does,
the soul bloom on beholding Guru's sight.
As the man finds his way in a great wilderness,
so is his light burnished by meeting the society of saints.
I desire the dust of the feet of those saints,
fulfil Nanak's desire O God.
O foolish man why bewailest thou?
Thou shalt obtain what is ordained for thee in thy destiny, since the very beginning.
Lord is the Dispenser of woe and weal.
Abandon other's and do thou remember Him alone.
Whatever He does deem that as good.
Why wanderest thou astray O ignorant man?
What thing has come with thee,
O greedy moth that thou art clinging to worldly pleasures?
In thy mind dwell thou on Lord's Name.
Nanak thus shalt thou go thy home with honour.
The merchandise thou hast come into the world to obtain,
that Name of the Omnipresent Lord is found in the house of the saints.
Give up arrogance, use your mind as measure,
and weigh Lord's Name within thy mind and purchase it with thy soul.
Load thy merchandise and set out with the saints.
Abandon other entanglements of deadly sins.
Blessed, blessed will everyone call thee.
Thy face shall be bright in that God's court.
Only a few engage in this trade.
Nanak is ever devoted unto them.
Wash, wash thou the feet of the saints and drink the wash.
Dedicate thy soul to the saint.
Take bath in the dust of the feet of the saints.
Become thou a sacrifice unto the saint.
Saints' service is obtained by the greatest good luck.
In the saints congregation God's praises are sung.
From various dangers the saint saves the man.
He who chants God's glories tastes the sweetness of ambrosia.
Who comes to the saints' door and seeks their protection,
He obtains all the comforts, O Nanak.
God is the Re-animator of the dead.
He gives food to the hungry.
All the treasure are in His gracious glance.
Man obtains the cargo which is originally destined for him.
All the things belong to Him He is Omnipotent.
Neither there has been, nor there shall be any but Him.
Ever and ever, O man, meditate on Him day and night.
The most exalted and immaculate is this way of living.
The man unto whom the Lord has mercifully granted,
His Name becomes pure, O Nanak.
He whose heart has faith in the Guru,
that man comes to meditate on the Lord God.
Within whose mind is the Unique Lord,
that person is renowned as a saint and devotee in the three worlds.
True is his doing and true his way of life.
True is his mind and truth he utters from his mouth.
True is his vision and true is his form.
He distributes truth and truth he spreads.
He who recognises the Supreme Lord as True,
Nanak that man gets absorbed in the True Being.
Slok.
The Lord has neither form nor outline nor any colour. He is exempt from three qualities.
O Nanak, with whom He is well pleased He causes him to understand Him.
Ashtpadi.
Keep thou the Imperishable Lord in thy mind,
and renounce thou the love of man.
Beyond Him there is nothing.
That One Lord is contained amongst all.
He Himself is far-seeing and Himself all-knowing.
He is Unfathomable, profound, Deep and all-wise.
He is the Transcendent Lord the Supreme Being and the Master of Universe.
God is the Treasure of mercy Compassionate and the Pardoner.
May I fall at the feet of Thine saints,
in the mind of Nanak is this longing.
God is the fulfiller of desire and potent to give protection.
What the Lord has inscribed with His hand that does take place.
He fills and empties in the twinkling of an eye.
None else knows His resolve.
He is the Embodiment of happiness and in His Mansion is the Eternal Beatitude.
All articles I have heard are in His palace.
Among kings He is the Supreme King and among yogis the Supreme Yogi.
Among penitents He is the great Penitent and among house-holders He is the Enjoyer.
By constant meditation the saints obtain peace.
Nanak of that Lord no one has found the end.
To His plays there is no limit.
All the demigods are tired of their search.
What does the son know of his father's birth?
All the things God has strung on His string.
To whom the Lord grants good sense Divine knowledge and meditation,
those servants of Him remember His Name.
Whom the Lord leads astray in three qualities,
he dies to be born again and continues coming and going.
High and low places are His.
As God causes Nanak to know Him so does he understand Him.
Various are the forms and various His colours.
He assumes various guises and yet remains One and the Same.
He has extended Himself in myriads of ways,
the Imperishable Unique Lord.
In am moment He stages myriads of plays.
The Perfect Lord is filling all the places.
In various ways He has made the creation.
His worth He has Himself appraised.
All the hearts are His and His are all the places.
Nanak lives by continually repeating God's Name.
By the Name are sustained all the creatures.
By the Name are supported the regions of the earth and solar-systems.
By God's Name are supported the Simirtis, the Vedas and the Puranas.
By the Name's support the mortals hear of Divine knowledge and meditation.
Lord's Name is the prop of the skies and under-worlds.
Lord's Name is the prop of the bodies.
By the Name are supported all the worlds and spheres.
Men have been saved by associating with the Name and hearing it with their ears.
Whom the Master mercifully attaches to His Name,
O Nanak, the servant obtains salvation and gets into the fourth state of beatitude.
True is His form and True His seat.
True is His personality and He alone is Supreme.
His acts are true and true is His word.
The True Lord is contained amongst all.
His deeds are true and true is His creation.
True is His foundation and true what springs therefrom.
True is His life-routine, the purest of the pure.
Everything turns out well for him, whom the Lord instructs.
The True Name of the Lord is Peace-giver.
True faith, Nanak has obtained from the Guru.
True are the words and instruction of the saint.
True are the persons, into whose minds the Lord enters.
If any one knows and greatly loves the Truth,
then, he obtains salvation by meditating on the Name.
The Lord Himself is True and true is everything, He has made.
He Himself knows His own measure and condition.
He, to whom the world belongs, is the Creator thereof.
None else understands Him think as he may.
The Creator's extent the created cannot know.
Nanak whatever pleases Him that alone does prevail.
I am amazed by beholding Lord's astounding wonders.
He who understands the Lord tastes the joy.
Lord's slaves remain absorbed in His Love.
Through Guru's instruction they receive the four cardinal boons.
They are generous and dispeller of pain.
In their association the world is saved.
He who is the attendant of Lord's serf is very fortunate.
In the society of His serf, man comes to profess love for One Lord.
Lord's slave sings His excellences and praises.
By Guru's favour, he obtains the reward, O Nanak.
Slok.
True in the Prime, True in the beginning of ages True He is even now
and True He shall verily be, O Nanak.
Ashtpadi.
True are the Lord's feet, and true is he, who touches them.
True is His worship and true the worshipper,
True is His sight and true the beholder thereof.
True is His Name and true is he who meditates on it.
He himself is True and true is everything that He sustains.
He Himself is goodness and Himself the Bestower of goodness.
True is the Lord's word and true its utterer.
True are the ears that hear the praise of the True One.
To him who understands the Lord all is Truth.
Nanak True True is He the Lord.
He who in his heart, believes the Embodiment of Truth (God),
recognises the cause of causes as the root of all.
Into whose heart the faith in the Lord has entered,
unto the mind of him the essence of Divine knowledge is revealed.
Shedding fear he abides fearlessly,
and is absorbed in Him from whom he sprang.
When a thing blends with another of its own kind,
that cannot be said to be separate from it.
Only an acute discerner understands it.
By meeting the Omnipresent Lord Nanak has become one with him.
Lord's slave is ever obedient to Him.
Lord's slave is ever an adorer of His.
Lord's slave has faith within his mind.
Pure is the way of life of Lord's slave.
The slave knows that his Lord is ever with him.
Lord's servant abides in love with His name.
Of his servant the Lord is the cherisher.
The formless Lord preserves the honour of His slave.
He is the servant unto whom the Lord shows mercy.
Nanak that slave remembers the Lord at every breath.
Of His serf the Lord screens the faults.
Of His serf, he assuredly preserves the honour.
On His attendant the Lord bestows glory.
He causes His attendant to remember His Name.
Of His serf He Himself preserves the honour.
His condition and measure no one knows.
None is equal to Lord's servant.
Lord's slaves are the highest of the high.
He whom the Lord applies to his service.
Nanak that servant is renowned in the ten directions.
If God infuses might in the tiny ant,
it can reduce to ashes armies of millions of men.
Whose breath (life) He Himself likes not to end,
holding out His hand the Lord preserves him.
The man makes efforts of many kinds,
but his doings go in vain.
None else can kill pre preserve (but God).
Of all the sentient - beings that Lord is the Protector.
Why entertainest thou anxiety, O Mortal?
Nanak, meditate thou on the invisible and wonderful Lord.
Again, again and again utter thou Lord's Name.
By drinking the Name Nectar this soul and body are sated.
He who receives the name jewel,
that Guru-ward beholds no other than God.
The Name is his wealth and the Name his beauty and delight.
The Name is his comfort and God's Name his comrade.
The persons who are satiated with the name Nectar,
their body and soul merge in the Name alone.
To repeat the name whilst standing sitting and sleeping,
says Nanak is ever the avocation of God's slave.
Utter thou Lord's praise with thy tongue day and Night.
This is the gift that the Lord has conferred on His serf.
He performs devotional service with heart-felt yearning,
and remains absorbed with (in) his Lord.
He knows the past and the present,
and recognises the order of his Lord.
Who can narrate His praise?
I know not how to describe even one of His excellences.
They who abide in the presence of the Lord the whole day long,
says Nanak, they are the perfect persons.
O my soul seek thou their protection.
Give thy heart and body unto those persons.
The man who recognises his Lord,
that man is the giver of all the things.
In His sanctuary, thou shalt find all the comforts.
By His sight all the sins shall be blotted out.
Renounce thou all other cleverness.
Attach thyself to the service of that slave.
Thy coming and going shall come to an end.
Nanak ever worship the feet of the slave of the Lord.
Slok.
He who has realised the True Lord is called the True Guru.
In his association his disciple is saved by singing God's praise, O Nanak.
Ashtpadi.
The True Guru cherishes his disciple.
Unto his attendant the Guru is ever merciful.
The Guru washed off the filth of the evil intellect of his disciple.
Under Guru's instruction he repeats the Name of God.
The True Guru cuts off the fetters of his disciple.
The Guru's disciple recoils from evil deeds.
To his disciple the True Guru gives the wealth of God's Name.
Very fortunate is the disciple of the Guru.
Of his disciple the True Guru adjusts this world and the next one.
Nanak with the fullness of his heart the True Guru mends his disciple.
The servant who lives in Guru's house,
should heartily obey Guru's command.
He ought not to show himself in any way.
In his mind he should ever meditate on Lord God's Name.
he who sells his soul to the True Guru,
the affairs of that slave are set right.
He who performs Guru's service without desire for reward,
attains to the Lord.
He, on whom the Guru himself showers His grace,
that slave acts unto the instruction of the Guru.
The servant who fully conciliates Guru's mind,
comes to know the state of the Supreme Being.
He is the True Guru within whose mind is God's Name.
Many times I am a sacrifice unto my Guru.
The Guru is the treasure of everything and the giver of life.
Throughout the eight watches of the day he remains dyed with the love of the Transcendent Lord.
The saint abides in the Lord and the Lord in the saint.
The Lord Himself is but One of this there is no doubt.
By thousands of clevernesses the Guru is not obtained.
Nanak by the greatest good fortune such Guru is attained to.
Accredited is Guru's sight. By beholding it one is purified.
By touching his feet, man's conduct and way of life are rendered blotless.
By moving in his company one utters Lord's praise,
and reaches the court of the Supreme Master.
On hearing Guru's words the ears are sated,
the mind gains contentment and the soul is propitiated.
Perfect is the Guru and eternally true is his instruction.
He whom he beholds with his ambrosial glance becomes a saint.
Infinite are his virtues His worth cannot be appraised.
Nanak who so pleases Him to him He unites with Himself.
Tongue is one but manifold are God's praises.
he is the True Lord of perfect discrimination.
Through no speech can mortal reach the Master.
The Lord is inaccessible incomprehensible and immaculate.
He needs no food, He is without enmity and the peace Giver.
His worth no one has ascertained.
Many devotees ever make obeisance unto Him.
On His lotus feet they meditate in their heart.
Ever devoted unto his True Guru is
Nanak, by whose grace he meditates upon the Name of such Lord.
This Divine ambrosia some rare person obtains.
He who quaffs this Nectar becomes immortal.
That man never perishes,
within whom mind the treasure of values becomes manifest.
Around the clock he takes (repeats) God's name,
and gives true instruction to his servant.
He is not polluted with worldly love and mammon.
He keeps in his mind the One Lord God.
In Pitch darkness a lamp shines for him.
Nanak superstition, worldly attachment and pain flee away from him.
Coolness prevails in the midst of heat,
O brother, happiness ensues, pain departs,
and fear of birth and death is removed,
by the perfect instruction of the saint.
The fear is annulled and man abides fearless.
All the evils are destroyed and vanish from the mind.
He, to whom he belonged has shown mercy unto him,
and in the company of saints he repeats the Name of God the Enemy of pride.
Stability is attained and doubt and wandering cease,
by listening with ears the praise of the Lord God, O Nanak!
He Himself is the Absolute Lord and verily He is the Related One,
who by manifesting His power has fascinated the entire world.
His plays the Lord has Himself set afoot.
His worth He Himself knows.
There is no other than God.
he the One Lord is among all.
Like warp and woof He is contained in all the forms and colours.
He becomes manifest by associating with the Saint.
having created the Creation the Lord has infused His might into it.
Nanak is may times a sacrifice unto Him.
Slok.
Without Lord's meditation nothing shall go with thee, O man. The deadly sins are all ashes.
Practise thou the Name of Lord Master. This is the excellent wealth.
Ashtpadi.
Reflect upon God in the company of pious persons.
Remember the One Lord and have the prop of the name.
Forget all other efforts, O my friend.
Place Lord's lotus feet into thy mind and heart.
That Lord is potent to do all the works.
Grasp thou firmly the article of God's Name.
Amass this wealth and become fortunate.
Pure is the instruction of the saintly persons.
Keep the hope of One Lord in thy mind.
Nanak all thy maladies shall be dispelled.
The wealth after which thou runnest in four directions,
that wealth thou shalt obtain by serving God.
The peace which thou ever desirest O friend,
that peace thou shalt have by loving the guild of saints.
The glory for which thou performest good acts,
that glory thou shalt find by hastening to God for protection.
The malady which is not cured by many remedies,
that malady is vanished by administering the medicine of God's Name.
Of all the treasures God's Name is the best treasure.
Utter it, O Nanak and thou shalt be acceptable in God's court.
Instruct the mind with God's Name.
Wandering in ten directions it shall thus come home.
No harm befalls him,
in whose heart that God abides.
This Dark-age is hot and cool is the God's Name.
Remember, remember it and obtain the ever-lasting peace.
Thy fear shall depart and thy hope shall be fulfilled.
By devotional service and Divine love, thy soul shall be enlightened.
Thou shalt go and dwell in that imperishable Home,
says Nanak, and the death's noose shall be cut then.
He is the true man, who preaches the meditation of the Real Thing.
The falsest of the false is he who suffers transmigration.
Coming and going are ended by Lord's service.
Shed the self-conceit and seek the shelter of the Divine Guru.
Like this thy invaluable life be saved.
Remember thou the Lord Master who is the prop of thy life.
Man cannot be saved by many efforts and
by studying Simirtis, Shashtras and Vedas.
Heartily apply thyself to God's meditation.
Thus shalt thou obtain thy heart desired fruit, O Nanak.
Wealth shall not go with thee.
Why art thou clinging to it, O foolish soul?
Sons, friends, family and wife,
tell! who has ever been benefited by these?
Dominion, revelment and extension of wealth,
tell! from these who has ever escaped.
Horses, elephants, carriages and equipages,
are false shows and false displays.
The ignorant man knows not Him who gave them.
By forgetting the Name O Nanak, the man ultimately repents.
Take thou the advice of the Guru, O silly man.
Without Lord's meditation good many wise men have been drowned.
Perform God's service with thy heart, O my friend,
and thy mind shall become pure.
Place Lord's lotus feet in thy mind,
and thy sins of all the births shall depart.
Thyself repeat God's Name and make others to repeat it.
By hearing, uttering and abiding by it, thou shalt obtain emancipation.
The real thing is God's True Name.
With Natural ease sing Lord's praises, O Nanak!
By chanting God's glories the filth (of your mind) shall be washed off,
and the all-spreading poison of ego shall depart.
Thou shalt become free from care and abide in comfort,
by remembering God's Name with every breath and morsel.
O Man, lay aside all the cleverness.
In the company of saints thou shalt gain the true wealth.
Amass God's Name as thy capital and have dealings therein.
Thou shalt obtain peace here and applause in God's court.
He sees the One Lord amongst all,
on whose forehead such destiny is recorded, says Nanak.
Repeat thou the Name of One Lord and magnify Him alone.
Remember One God and yearn for him alone in thy mind.
Sing the excellences of the Infinite One Lord.
With mind and body think thou of the One fortunate Lord.
God Himself is the only, only one.
The pervading Lord is fully filling every place.
From the One Lord there have been many expansions.
By remembering the Unique Being the sins depart.
My soul and body are imbued in One Lord.
By Guru's favour, Nanak has known but One God.
Slok.
After wandering and wandering O Lord I have come and entered Thine sanctuary.
O Master Nanak's prayer is: "Attach me to Thine devotional service".
Ashtpadi.
I, a beggarly man beg a gift of Thee, O Lord.
Show mercy and grant me Thy Name.
I ask for the dust of pious persons feet.
My Supreme Lord, fulfill my desire.
Ever, ever I may celebrate Lord's excellences.
And at every breath I may meditate on Thee O Lord.
I should embrace affection for Thine lotus feet.
For ever and aye I may perform Lord's service.
Thou O Lord art my only shelter mine only prop.
Nanak asks for Thy excellent Name my Master.
In Lord's kind look there is great comfort.
Rare is the person who obtains God's elixir.
The mortals who partake of it, are satiated.
They become perfect persons and waver not.
They are completely filled with the sweetness and delight of Lord's love.
In the society of saints spiritual delight is produced in their mind.
Forsaking all others they enter Lord's sanctuary.
Their heart is illumined and on the Lord they fix their attention night and day.
Through the greatest good luck He the Lord is meditated upon.
They who are imbued with the name O Nanak, procure peace.
The Lord's slave's desire is fulfilled,
and from the True Guru he has obtained the pure instruction.
Unto His slave the Lord has become merciful.
His servant He has rendered ever happy.
The servant's fetters are cut and he is emancipated.
Gone are his birth, death, pain and doubt.
His desire is satiated and faith is all fulfilled.
He remains permeated in God and ever remains with Him and in His presence.
He of whom he is has blended him with Himself.
Nanak is absorbed in Lord's devotion and Name.
Why forget Him who disregards not mortal's service?
Why forget Him who acknowledges what is done for Him?
Why forget Him, who has given us everything.
Why forget Him, who is the life is the sentient beings?
Why forget Him who preserves us in the womb-fire?
BY Guru's grace, some rare one sees Him.
Why forget Him who extricates man from sin,
and unites him with Himself, separated from Him since many births?
The perfect Guru has taught me this reality.
Serf Nanak has meditated on His Lord.
O friendly saints do this work.
Abandon all else and repeat God's Name.
Remember, remember, remember the Name and obtain peace.
Thyself repeat the Name and make others to repeat it.
By meditation and Divine Love thou shalt cross over the world ocean.
Without meditation the body shall become ashes.
Lord's name is the treasure of all the comforts and joys,
even the drowning one obtains rest.
Utter thou the Name of the Lord of excellences,
all thy sorrows shall vanish, O Nanak!
The savour of love and affection and yearning for God have sprung up in me.
This is the very object within my mind and body.
Be beholding Lord's sight with mine eyed, I get peace.
My soul is gladdened by washing saints feet.
Within the mind and body of the pious persons is the love of the Lord.
Rare is the person who attains their association.
Mercifully, O Lord grant me one thing,
that by Guru's grace I may repeat Thy Name.
His praise cannot be expressed.
Nanak, the Lord is contained amongst all.
The Lord is the Pardoner and Merciful to the meek.
He is the Lover of saints and ever Compassionate.
He is the Patron of the patronless Preserver of the Universe and the Cherisher of the world.
He nourishes all the beings.
He is the Primal Being and the Creator of the universe.
He is the prop of the life of holy men.
Whosoever meditates on Him he becomes pure.
He focuses his hearty affection on the devotional service of God.
I am virtueless low and ignorant.
Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary O the Omnipotent, Auspicious Master.
One obtains everything; heaven, emancipation and salvation,
by singing God's excellences even for a moment.
He enjoys various sovereignties dainties and honours,
to whose mind God's Name's discourse is pleasing.
He enjoys plenteous food, raiment and music,
whose tongue ever utters God's Name.
Good are his deeds and glorious and wealthy is he,
within whose mind the instruction of the Perfect Guru abides.
Grant an abode in the society of saints (O Lord!),
whereby all the comforts shall become manifest unto Nanak.
Slok
The Formless Lord is Himself related and absolute, He Himself is in primordial trance.
Nanak through His own creation He again, meditates on Himself.
Ashtpadi.
When the creation had not appeared in any form,
then, by whom were the bad acts and the good ones committed?
When the Lord Himself was in profound concentration,
against whom, then were enmity and jealousy harboured?
When no colour or outline of this man was seen,
say, who then was affected by joy and sorrow?
When the Supreme Lord Himself was all in all,
then where was worldly love and who has superstition, ?
His play He Himself has spread out.
Nanak there is no other Creator.
When the Lord was the sole Master,
say, then who was accounted as bound or delivered?
When there was the only One inaccessible and infinite Lord Himself,
say, then who did enter hell or paradise?
When the unqualitative Lord was with His inherent nature,
say, then at what place was mind and where was the matter?
When He Himself did hold His own light,
who was then fearless and who did fear any one?
He Himself is the performer of his play
Nanak the Lord is unapproachable and illimitable.
When the Imperishable Lord was seated on His comfortable seat,
say, where was then transmigration and destruction?
When there was only that Perfect Lord, the Creator,
say, who then did entertain the fear of death?
When there was only the One Unmanifest and Incomprehensible Lord,
whom did the recording angels call on for account?
When there was only the Pure, Unapprehensible and Unfathomable Master,
who was then emancipated and who was bound with fetters?
The Lord is all by Himself, He Himself is Wonderful.
Nanak, His form, He Himself has created.
Where there was only the Immaculate Being the Lord of men,
and there being no filth there say what was then to be washed?
When there was only the Bright Formless and Detached one,
then who was held in honour and who in dishonour?
When there was only the form of the World-Lord,
who was afflicted then by fraud and sin?
When the Embodiment of Light was immersed with His own Light,
who did there then feel hungry and satiated?
The cause of causes is the Creator.
Nanak the Maker is beyond calculation.
When God's glory lay with Himself alone,
who was then mother, father, friend, son and brother?
When He Himself was well-versed in all the power,
why did then anyone see the Vedas and Books of the west then?
When the Lord kept His ownself to His own mind,
then who thought of favourable and unfavourable omens?
Where the Lord Himself was high and Himself low,
then who could be called a Master and who a servant?
I am astonished at the wonderous mystery of the Lord.
Nanak Thine condition, Thou Thyself knowest, O Lord.
When the undeceivable, impenetrable and inscrutable Lord was contained in Himself,
then who felt the influence of mammon.
When God himself paid homage to His ownself,
then the three qualities had not entered the world.
When there was but one Unique Lord,
who was free from care and who felt care then?
When the Lord with Himself was self-satisfied,
who was the utterer and who the hearer then?
The Lord is Vastly Infinite and the Highest of the High.
Nanak He alone reached His ownself.
When the Lord Himself fashioned the universe and forms,
He made the world in (subject to) three dispositions.
Demerits and merits then began to be spoken of.
Some go to hell and some crave for paradise.
God made the worldly snares entanglements of mammon,
pride, earthly affection, doubt and loads of fear.
Pain and pleasure, honour and dishonour,
began to be described in many ways.
His own play the Lord Himself creates and beholds.
When God winds up the play, then, O Nanak he alone is left.
Wherever is the saint of the Imperishable Lord there He Himself is.
Wherever He spreads out creation that is for the glory of His saint.
Of both the sides He Himself is the Master.
His praise becomes Him alone.
The Lord Himself performs plays recreations and frolics.
He Himself enjoys pleasures and yet remains uncontaminated.
Whomsoever He pleases him He attached with His Name.
Whomsoever He please Him He causes to play the play of the world.
God is incalculable, unfathomable, uncountable and immeasurable.
As Thou, O Lord, causeth him to speak so does servant Nanak speak.
Slok.
O Lord of men and creatures! thou are amongst all.
Nanak the One Lord is all pervading where can there be another seen?
Ashtpadi.
He Himself is the speaker and Himself the listener.
He Himself is One and Himself many.
When it pleases Him then does He create the world.
By His pleasure, He absorbs it in Himself.
without Thee nothing can be done.
On thy string, Thou has strung the whole world.
He whom the Venerable Lord Himself instructs,
That man attains the True Name.
He is an impartial looker and knower of Reality.
Nanak he is the victor of the whole world.
All the men and creatures are in His hands.
He is Merciful to the meek and the Patron of the patronless.
None can kill him whom God preserves.
He whom the Lord forgets in His mind, is already dead.
Leaving Him why should any one go to another.
Over the heads of all is the One Pure King.
In whose power are all the plans of the mortals,
know that He is with thee within and without.
He is an Ocean of excellences Infinite and Endless.
Serf Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Him.
The perfect compassionate Lord is fully pervading every where,
and is Merciful to all.
His affairs He Himself knows.
The knower of hearts is contained in everything.
The Lord cherishes the beings in diverse ways.
Whomsoever He has made that meditates on Him.
Whosoever pleases Him, him He blends with Himself.
Such person performs God's service and sings His praises.
With faith within his mind he worships the Lord.
The One Master, Nanak recognises as the Creator.
Lord's slave is attached with His Name alone.
His hope goes not in vain.
It behoves the servant to perform service.
By obeying God's order he obtains the supreme status.
Above this, there is no other meditation for him,
within whose mind abides the Formless Lord.
He cuts his fetter and becomes free from enmity,
and night and day, adores Guru's feet.
He is at ease in this world hereafter.
Nanak the Lord God unites him with Himself.
Make merry in the congregation of the saints.
Sing thou the praises of the Lord the embodiment of supreme bliss.
Embrace thou the meditation of God's Name the real thing.
Like this save thy scarcely obtainable human body.
Sing thou the ambrosial hymns of God's praise.
This is the only way to save thy soul.
The whole day long behold thou the Lord just near thee.
Thy ignorance shall depart and darkness be dispelled.
Hearken thou to Guru's instruction and treasure it in thy heart.
So shalt thou, O Nanak, obtain the fruit of thy heart's desire.
Embellish both this world and the next one,
by enshrining the Lord's Name within thy mind.
Perfect is the instruction of the Perfect Guru.
He in whose heart, it abides he assays the truth.
With thy mind and body lovingly repeat God's Name.
Thus shall sorrow pain and fear depart from thy mind.
Deal thou in true trade o dealer.
Thy merchandise shall safely reach God's court.
Put the prop of One Lord within thy mind.
Nanak thou shalt not again come and go.
Where can anyone go far from Him?
By remembering the Preserver the man is saved.
By meditating on the Fearless Lord all the fear departs.
By Lord's grace the mortal is released.
He whom the Lord preserves get not trouble.
By remembering the Name the mind attains peace.
Anxiety departs and ego is annulled.
No one can equal that slave of God.
Over his head stands the brave Guru.
His affairs O Nanak are all adjusted.
Whose understanding is perfect and whose glance is ambrosial,
by beholding the sight of such Guru, the world is delivered.
His lotus feet are beautiful beyond description.
Accredited is his sight and God like fascinating is his from.
Blessed is his service and acceptable his servant.
The Guru is the knower of hearts and the most exalted person.
He within whose mind the Guru dwells becomes happy.
Death draws not near him.
I have become immortal and obtained the immortal rank,
by meditating on God in the guild of saints, O Nanak!
Slok.
The Guru has given me the collyrium of divine knowledge by which the darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
By God's grace I have met the Saint (Guru) and my mind, O Nanak is enlightened.
Ashtpadi.
In the society of saints I have seen the Lord within me.
Lord's Name has become sweet unto me.
All the things are in the mind of One Lord,
which appear in many and diverse colours.
The nine treasures and the Nectar are Lord's Name.
Within the Human body itself is its seat.
There is deep meditation and melody of celestial music there.
The wonder and marvel of it can not be narrated.
He to whom God Himself shows, beholds it.
Nanak such a man obtains understanding.
The Infinite Lord is both within and without.
The Auspicious Master is contained in every heart.
He is in earth sky and the under -world.
Of all the worlds he is the Perfect Cherisher.
In forests, grass blades and mountains the Supreme Lord is contained.
As is His will so are His creatures acts.
The Lord is in wind water and fire.
He is permeating the four quarters and the ten directions.
There is no place without Him.
By Guru's grace, Nanak has obtained peace.
Behold Him in Vedas, Puranas and Simirtis.
In the moon, the sun and the stars, He, the One Lord is.
Lord's Gurbani every one repeats.
He is unwavering and wavers not ever.
With all the skill He plays His plays.
His worth cannot be appraised Priceless are His merits.
Amongst all the light is His Light.
The Lord is holding the warp and woof of the world.
Whose doubt is dispelled by Guru's grace,
in them, O Nanak is this firm faith.
In the sight of the holy man the Lord is in every-thing.
In the mind of the holy man there is all faith.
The holy man hears good words.
He merges into the All-pervading Lord.
This is the way of life if him who knows the Lord.
True are all the words which the saint utters.
Whatever happens he takes that for the best.
He deems that the Lord is the doer of deeds.
He abides within and He is also found without.
Nanak, on beholding His sight, every one is bewitched.
He Himself is True and True is all that He has made.
From that Lord has originated the entire creation.
When it pleases Him then does he make the expanse.
if it pleases Him He becomes One alone then.
Manifold are His powers which cannot be known.
He unites with Himself whomsoever He Pleases.
Who is near and who can be said as distant from Him?
All by Himself He is fully pervading everywhere.
God causes that man to understand Him,
whom he instructs that He Himself is within Him, O Nanak!
Amongst all the forms the Lord Himself is contained.
Through all the eyes, He Himself is the beholder.
The whole creation is His Body.
His praise He Himself hears.
He has made coming and going as a play.
He has rendered mammon subservient to Him.
Though amidst everything He remains unattached.
Whatever is to be said, He Himself says.
By His order man comes and by His order he goes.
Nanak when it pleases Him He blends the mortal with Himself then.
Whatever comes from Him that cannot be bad.
Without Him say has any one done anything?
He Himself is good and very good are His acts.
He alone knows what is in His mind.
He Himself is True and True is everything which He has stationed.
Like warp and woof, He is merged into Himself.
His condition and extent cannot be told.
If there were another like him then he could understand Him.
All is done by Him must be accepted,
through Guru's grace Nanak has come to know this.
He who knows Him obtains eternal peace.
The Lord blends him with Himself.
He is wealthy, of high-family and honourable,
in whose mind the illustrious Lord abides and he obtains salvation while alive.
Blessed, blessed, blessed is the advent of Lord's serf,
by whose grace the entire world is saved.
The object of the advent of Lord's serf is,
this that in the company of Lord's serf the name is remembered.
He Himself is emancipated and emancipates the world.
Unto that slave of the Lord Nanak ever makes an obeisance.
Slok.
I have meditates on the Perfect Lord perfect is whose Name.
By singing the praises of the Perfect one Nanak has obtained the Perfect Master.
Ashtpadi.
Listen to the instruction of the Perfect Guru.
See the Supreme Lord as near thee.
At every breath meditate upon the World-Lord.
The anxiety of thy mind and heart shall depart.
Abandon the waves of the transient desires,
and heartily pray for the dust of saints feet.
Renounce thy pride and make supplication.
In the saints society cross the ocean of fire.
With Gods wealth fill thine treasures.
Nanak makes obeisance unto the perfect Guru.
Thou shalt have salvation, happiness, calmness and bliss,
by meditating on God the Supreme Joy in the company of saints.
Thou shalt avoid hell and save thy soul,
quaff the ambrosial essence of Lord's praise.
In thy mind remember the One Pervading Lord,
who has one form and many manifestations.
He is the World-Cherisher the Holder of universe in His belly,
kind to the poor, Destroyer of pain and perfectly Merciful.
Remember, remember the Name over and over again.
Nanak it is the only support of the soul.
The saints words are the sublime hymns.
These are invaluable rubies and gems.
He who hears them and acts thereon is saved.
He swims himself and makes other people swim across.
Fruitful is his life and profitable his company,
whose heart is imbued with God's love.
Hail, hail unto him for whom the celestial music plays.
He continually hears it makes merry and proclaims Lord's praise.
The Lord manifests Himself on the brow of the pious persons.
Nanak is saved in their company.
Hearing that God is capable of giving shelter I have come to seek His shelter.
Showing His mercy, the Lord has united me with Himself.
My enmity is gone and I have become the dust of all.
In the saints company I have obtained the Nectareous Name.
The Divine Guru is well-pleased with me,
and the service of the servant has borne fruit.
I have become freed from worldly entanglements and sins,
by hearing Lord's Name and repeating it with my tongue.
By His grace the Lord has shown mercy unto me.
Nanak, my merchandise has safely arrived.
Sing the praise of the Lord, O friendly saints,
with alertness and single-mindedness.
In the Sukhmani are peace Lord's praise and Name.
He within whose mind it abides becomes wealthy.
All his desires are fulfilled.
He becomes the most distinguished man and gets renowned in the entire world.
He obtains the highest place of all.
He does not again come and go.
He departs after earning the wealth of God's Name,
who obtains (the Sukhmani), O Nanak!
Repose, peace, wealth, nine treasures, understanding,
divine knowledge, all the immediate occult powers,
learning, penance, union with and meditation on the Master,
the exquisite divine insight the excellent ablutions;
the four cardinal boons the blossoming of the heart lotus;
detachment from all things though in the midst of them all;
beautiful, shrewd and knower of reality;
impartial looker and the beholder of one God,
these gifts are obtained by the man,
who with his mouth recites (the Sukhmani) and heartily bears Guru Nanak's hymns in praise of God's Name.
Let any one meditate heartily on this Name treasure.
In all the ages he shall obtain salvation.
This composition is the praise of the World-Lord,
and the recitation of the Name about which the Simirtis, Shashtras and Vedas speak.
The essence of all the religions is the God's Name alone.
It abides in the mind of Lord's devotee.
Millions of sins are effaces (pardoned) in the saints guild.
By saints' mercy man escapes the death's courier.
They, on whose brow the Lord had recorded such destiny,
have O Nanak entered the saints sanctuary.
He within whose mind the Sukhmani abides,
and who listens to it with love that mortal remembers the Lord Master.
His pangs of birth and death are destroyed.
His body (life), so difficult to obtain, is forth with exonerated
Spotless is his repute and sweet is his speech.
The Name alone is contained in his mind.
Sorrow, sickness, dread, and doubt depart from him.
He goes by the Name of a saint and His acts are pure.
The highest of all becomes his glory.
Because of these virtues O Nanak this is called thy Hymn of peace.
Gauri, Lunar days 5th Guru.
Slok.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Lord. the Creator is contained in water, the land and the sky.
In manifold ways the one Lord has diffused Himself O Nanak.
Pauri.
The First Lunar day: Make obeisance unto and meditate upon the Unique Master.
Sing the praise of Lord the World Sustainer and the Cherisher of Universe and seek the shelter of God, The King.
Rest thy hope in Him to obtain salvation and solace from whom everything emanates.
I have wandered about in four direction and ten sides and seen nothing but Him.
I have listen to Vedas, the Puranas and the Simirtis and have pondered over them in many ways.
The Formless Lord alone is the Saviour of Sinners, Destroyer of dread and an Ocean of peace.
He is the Bestower the Enjoyer, and the Giver. There is no place without Him.
Nanak by singing God's praises man obtains all that he desires.
Daily celebrate the excellences of God, the Preserver of the earth.
Meeting the society of saint meditate thou on the Lord, O my friend. Pause
Slok
Make obeisance unto the Lord many times and enter the sanctuary of God the King.
In the society of saints O Nanak doubt is stilled and love of another is shed.
Pauri.
The Second Lunar Day: Give-up the evil intellect and ever perform the Guru's service.
By shedding lust, wrath, and avarice the jewel of Lord's Name shall abide within the mind and body, O friend.
Thou shall overcome death, obtain eternal life and all thine griefs shall depart.
Abandon thy self-conceit, remember the Lord and Lord's devotional service shall enter thy mind.
Thou shalt earn profit suffer no loss and be honoured in God's court.
Fortunate and truly wealthy is he who amasses the riches of Pervading God's Name.
Standing up and sitting down meditate thou on God and enshrine affection for the saints society.
Nanak when the Supreme Lord abides in man's mind his evil intellect is annulled.
Slok.
The three qualities are harassing the world and some rare one attains the fourth state of bliss.
Nanak the saints within whose mind that Lord abides become pure.
Pauri.
The Third Lunar day: The men of three dispositions, gather poison, as their fruit. They are just now good and just now bad.
They greatly wander in hell and heaven and death ever annihilates them.
Gripped by weal, woe, and doubt of the world, they pass their life in taking pride.
They know not Him who did create them and think of various others plans.
They remain merged in pains and pleasures of the mind and body and their fever (worry) never departs.
They realise not the effulgence of the Transcendent Lord, the perfect master.
In secular love and superstition many are drowned and in the arch hell do they abide.
Show mercy O Lord and save me Nanak's hope rests in Thee.
Slok
He who eschews his ego is intelligent, wise and accomplished.
Nanak by meditating on the Name of God the four cardinal boons and eight occult powers are attained.
Pauri.
The Forth Lunar Day: Hearing the Vedas and pondering over their reality, I have ascertained,
that the sublime meditation of Lords Name is the treasure of all the joys and comforts.
By being absorbed in God's praises hell is warded off, suffering is removed,
many an affliction depart death is overcome as the mortal escapes the death's couriers.
Tinged with the love of the Formless Lord man's fear departs and he enjoys the Nectar.
with the mainstay of God's Name, pain poverty and impiety are removed.
The gods, men and the silent sages, search for the Lord, the Ocean of peace.
By becoming the dust of the saints feet, O Nanak the mind is rendered pure and the face bright.
Slok
The mortal is engrossed in worldly valuables and the five evil passions abide in his mind.
Tinctured with Lord's love in the saints guild, O Nanak he becomes pure.
Pauri.
The fifth Lunar day: They are the elect and the most distinguished, who understand the purport of the world.
Like the great scent and many colours of flowers all the frauds are false.
Man sees not, he understands not the reality, nor does he deliberate even a little.
The world is pierced through with relishes, temporal love and revelments and is engrossed in ignorance.
They suffer transmigration and wander in many existences, who perform many religious rites,
but do not meditate on the Creator and in their mind have no Divine discrimination.
By virtue of Lord's love devotion and association, mortal is not in the least contaminated by mammon.
Nanak scarcely are found such persons who get not engrossed in the world.
Slok.
The six schools of philosophy proclaim Him Great and that there is no limit to this and yonder shore of the Lord.
Nanak the saints look beauteous, when they sing Lord's praises at His door.
Pauri.
The Sixth Lunar Day: Say the six Shashtras and assert the many Simirtis that sublime and lofty is the Transcendent Lord,
whose virtues and limit even the thousand-mouthed serpent does not know.
Narad, the pious persons, Suk and Vyasa, sing the praise of Lord the Preserver of earth.
They are domesticated with the Name Nectar, are united with God and are absorbed in the Lord's meditation.
By seeking the shelter of the Merciful Master, temporal attachment, ego and doubt are effaced.
Lord's lotus feet abide within my mind and body and I am delighted by beholding His sight.
By embracing love for God in the society of saints, man reaps profit and surfers no loss
Nanak by remembering the Name the mortal attains to the Treasure of God and ocean of excellences.
Slok.
The saints assembly narrates God's eulogies and tell us the truth with love.
Nanak by enshrining affection for the One Lord the soul gets contented.
Pauri.
The seventh Lunar day: Amass the wealth of the name. This treasure runs not short.
In the society of saints is obtained the Lord who has no limit and bounds.
Relinquish thy self-conceit, remember the Lord and enter the sanctuary of God the King
Thy pain shall depart, thou shalt swim across the terrible world-ocean and obtain the heart desired fruit.
Profitable and approved is the advent of him who the whole day long heartily remembers God.
Within and without, ever realise the Creator to be with thee.
He is the friend he the comrade and an intimate who imparts unto me the Divine instruction.
Nanak is devoted unto me who repeats the Name of the Lord God.
Slok.
Lay aside other entanglements and sing God's praises throughout the eight watches of the day.
Death's Minister cannot eye the man unto whom the Lord is merciful, O Nanak.
Pauri.
The eighth Lunar day, the eight occult doers the nine treasures,
all the precious things, perfect intellect,
the blossoming of heart lotus, eternal bliss,
pure way of life, infallible instruction,
all the virtues, sacred ablutions,
and the most lofty and sublime Divine knowledge,
are obtained by Lord God's meditation in the company of the Perfect Guru.
Man is saved, O Nanak by affectionately meditating on God's Name.
Slok.
The mortal contemplates not over the Pervading God and is fascinated by the pleasures of sin.
By forgetting the Name, he lands in hell and heaven, O Nanak.
Pauri.
The ninth Lunar day: Defiled are the nine body apertures.
The mortals utter not God's Name and take to evil ways.
They enjoy another's women, speak ill of the saints,
and with their ears, hear not even an iota of God praise.
For the sake of their belly they snatch other's wealth,
their fire is quenched not nor is their desire stilled.
Without God's service such are the man's deserts.
Nanak by forgetting the Lord, the unfortunate ones suffer transmigration.
Slok.
I have wandered searching in ten directions, wherever I see I find that Lord there.
Nanak man's mind is controlled if the Lord shows His perfect mercy unto him.
Pauri.
The tenth Lunar day, he who overpowers his ten doors (five sensory and five motor organs),
is mentally content and repeats the Name.
With thine ears hear thou the Lord's praise,
with thine eyes see the kind saints.
With thy tongue sing the excellences of the Infinite Lord.
In thy mind think of the Perfect Lord.
With thine hands and feet perform thou saints service.
Nanak this mode of life is obtained by Lord's grace.
Slok
Describe the Lord as but One Some rare person knows His relish
The merits of the World -Lord cannot be known. Nanak He is all -wonder.
Pauri.
The eleventh Lunar day: Behold thou the pervading Lord just near at hand.
Subdue thy sexual organ, and hear God's Name.
Be thou mentally content and show kindness to all living beings.
In this way thy fast shall be
Keep thy wandering mind at one place.
The soul and body become pure by uttering God's Name.
The Supreme One is fully contained amongst all.
Sing God's praises. This alone is the eternal faith, O Nanak.
Slok.
Evil-intellect is effaced by meeting and serving the compassionate saints.
Nanak is blended with the Lord and all his entanglements are ended.
Pauri.
The twelfth Lunar day: Dedicate thyself to alms-giving, the Name's meditation and mind's cleansing.
Shed thy ego and embrace God's devotional service.
Drink God's Name Nectar in the guild of saints.
The soul is sated by lovingly singing Lord's praises.
The sweet speech soothes every one.
The soul, subtle essence of the five elements is cherished with God's Name Nectar.
From the perfect Guru this faith is obtained.
Nanak by remembering the pervading Lord the mortal enters not the womb again.
Slok.
In three modes, the man is engrossed and his works succeed not.
Nanak, He is saved only when the Name of Lord, the saviour of sinner, abides in his mind.
Pauri.
The thirteenth Lunar day: The world is afflicted with the fevers of three qualities.
It comes, goes and fall into hell.
Lord God's meditation enters not its mind.
It sing not even for an instant the praise of Lord, the ocean of peace.
Of weal and woe this body is the embodiment.
It is afflicted with the chronic and incurable disease of mammon.
He practises evil day and night, and gets tried out.
With drowsiness in his eyes, he mutters in dream.
By forgetting God, this becomes his condition.
Nanak has sought the shelter of the kind, omnipotent Lord.
Slok.
The Lord is pervading all the four directions and the fourteen worlds.
Nanak, He is not seen wanting any where and complete are His works.
Pauri.
The fourteen Lunar day: In the four sides the Lord Himself is contained.
In all the worlds, perfect is His effulgence.
The Unique Lord is diffused in ten directions.
In earth and sky see thou thy Lord everywhere.
The ocean, land, forest mountain and the under-world,
the merciful Transcendent Lord abides there.
In mind and matter, the Auspicious Matter is everywhere contained.
Nanak, through the Guru, thus realise thou the pervading Lord.
Slok.
The mind is conquered by singing Lord's praise, under Guru's instruction.
By saints favour O Nanak, the fear is dispelled and anxiety is ended.
Pauri.
The day of no moon: the Divine Guru has conferred contentment on me, and my soul is rendered comfortable.
My mind and body are cooled, are in peace and equipoise, and I have applied myself to Lord's service.
His bounds are broken, his manifolds sins are erased, his affairs are arranged and accomplished,
his mal-intellect disappears and his ego is stilled, who remembers God's Name.
By grasping the protection of the Supreme Lord's coming and going has ended
By uttering the praise of the Lord Master, he saves himself along with his family.
I perform the service of God alone and utter the Name of the Lord.
From the perfect Guru, Nanak has obtained peace and pleasure.
Slok.
The perfect man, whom the Lord Himself has made perfect, never wavers.
Day by day he prospers and fails not, O Nanak.
Pauri.
The day of full moon: The omnipotent Lord, alone is perfect and the cause of causes.
The Lord, whose protecting hand is over all, is merciful to the mortals and other beings.
The great Lord, at whose instant everything is done, is the treasure of excellences.
He, the wise, unseen and pure Lord, is the knower of hearts.
Transcendent Lord, the Lofty master is the knower of all the devices.
He is the helper of the saints and potent to give shelter. I ever make obeisance to Him.
I meditate on the feet of God, whose ineffable discourse cannot be known.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the Lord, who is the savior of the sinners and the Master of masterless.
Slok.
My pain has fled and my doubt has departed, since I have grasped the shelter of God the king.
By singing the praises of God, Nanak has obtained his heart desired fruits.
Pauri.
Let someone sing, some one hear, some one reflect on,
some one preach the Name of God and some one preach the Name of God and some one fix it in his mind, he shall forthwith be saved.
His sins shall be effaced, he shall become pure and his filth of many births shall be washed off.
In this world and the next world, his countenance shall be bright, and mammon shall not affect him.
He is the man of wisdom, he the vegetarian, he the divine and the man of wealth;
He is the hero, and he is of high family, who has meditated on the Fortunate Lord.
The warriors, priests, menials, the farmers and pariahs are saved by remembering the Lord.
Nanak is the dust of his feet, who knows his Lord.
Eulogy of Gauri, 4th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Slok 4th Guru.
Compassionate is the Great True Guru, for whom all are alike.
He beholds all with the same eye, but with mind faith he is obtained.
In the True Guru abides the Name nectar. He is sublime like God and hold Divine rank.
Nanak by Guru's grace, God is remembered. A few Guru-ward's obtain the Lord.
4th Guru.
Self-conceit and wealth are all poison. Attached therewith, man ever suffers loss in this world.
By pondering on the Name, the Guru-ward earns the profit of God wealth.
By placing God and God and God's elixir in the mind, the poison of the filth of ego is removed.
Unto whom the Exalted Guru shows mercy, all their affairs are adjusted.
Nanak, they, whom God the creator unites, meet the primal Lord and remain blended with him.
Pauri.
Thou O True Lord, art True. The truest of the True Thou art, O World-Lord.
Everyone remembers Thee, all falls at Thine feet.
Graceful, and home of beauty, is Thy praise. Thou savest him who celebrates it.
Thou givest reward to the holy, and they get absorbed in the True Name.
O my great Lord, great is Thine greatness.
Slok 4th Guru.
The taste of praising anything but the Name and all other talk is insipid.
The perverse praise their pride, but in vain is the love of self-conceit.
They, whom they praise, die away. All of them pine away in wranglings.
O serf Nanak, the holy are saved by pondering on Lord God, the Embodiment of Supreme Bliss.
4th Guru.
My True Guru, tell me of the Lord Master, that, in my, mind, I may meditate upon His Name.
By repeating with my mouth, the sacred Name of God, O Nanak, I may shake off all my agonies.
Pauri.
O my formless, Immaculate God, the King, Thou art all by Thy ownself.
They who remember Thee with single mind, O True Lord them Thou riddest of all anguishes.
Thou hast no equal, seating whom close by I may speak of Thee.
O pure Lord, Thou alone art as great a Donor, as Thyself. Thou O True One, art pleasing to my mind.
O my True Lord, Truest of the True is Thine Name.
Slok 4th Guru.
In the mind of the evil perverse persons is the disease of pride, and they are gone astray in doubt.
Nanak, by meeting the saintly Satguru, the friend, they get the disease eradicated.
4th Guru.
The mind and body of the pious person are dyed, with the love of God, the treasure of virtues.
Servant Nanak has sought God's shelter. Hail, unto the Guru who has united him with God.
Pauri.
Thou art the Omnipotent and inaccessible Creator, with whom should I compare Thee?
Were there anyone as great as Thee, I may Name him. Thou alone art said to be like Thee.
In every heart, Thou art contained alike. Through the Guru, Thou becomest manifest.
Thou art the True Lord of all. Thou art the highest of all as well.
When, what Thou doest, O True Lord, that alone happens, then why should we grieve?
Slok 4rh Guru.
The whole day long, my soul and body remain imbued with the love of my Beloved.
Show mercy onto slave Nanak, O Lord, that he may abide in peace by meeting the Satguru.
4th Guru.
Within whose heart is the love of the Darling, they look beauteous then, when they repeat Lord's praise.
Nanak, God the Beloved, who has infused His affection in them, Himself, knows all this.
Pauri.
Thou Thyself, O Creator, art infallible. Thou can't be in any wrong.
O True One, whatever Thou doest that is good. By Guru's instruction this understanding is obtained.
Thou art competent to do all the works. There is no other than Thee.
Thou my Lord art inaccessible and Merciful. Everyone thinks of thee.
All the beings are Thine and Thou belongest to all. Thou deliverest one and all.
Slok 4th Guru.
Hear, O my Friend, the message of love. My eyes glance is fixed on Thee.
Being pleased, the Guru has united serf Nanak with the Friend, and he now sleeps in peace.
4th Guru.
The generous True Guru is merciful. He ever, feels compassion.
The True Guru is Uninimical from within and beholds that Unique Lord everywhere.
None of those, who bear enmity to the Uninimical, gets satiated.
The True Guru wished well of everyone. How can evil befall him?
As anyone feels towards the True Guru, so is the fruit he gets.
Nanak, the Creator, from whom nothing can remain hidden knows everything.
Pauri.
Know him alone to be great whom the Lord makes great.
The Lord pardons him whom He wishes, and he becomes pleasing to Lord's mind.
He, who rivals him, is an insensate fool.
He, whom the Satguru unites with the Lord, sings His praises and utters and narrates His excellences.
Nanak, the True One alone is True. He who understands Him is absorbed in Truth.
Slok, 4th Guru.
God is True, Immaculate, Eternal, Fearless, without enmity and Formless.
They, who contemplate over Him with single mind and single heart, get rid of the load of pride.
Hail, unto the saintly persons, who, through the Guru, have mediated on God.
If someone slanders the Perfect Satguru, him the whole world rebukes and reproaches.
Within the Satguru, God himself abides, and Himself is his protector.
Blest! blest! is the Guru, who sings Lord's praises. Unto him ever, ever and ever, I make an obeisance.
Slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto those, who have contemplated over their creator.
4th Guru.
God Himself has made the earth and Himself the sky.
He of himself created the beings therein, and of Himself puts morsels (food) in their mouths.
All by Himself He pervades everywhere and Himself is the Treasure of excellences.
Remember Thou God's Name, O slave Nanak, and He shall efface all thine sins.
Pauri.
Thou, O True Lord, art True. The truth is pleasing to the True one.
Death's myrmidon draws not near them, who praise Thee, O True Lord.
The faces of those to whose mind the True Lord is pleasing, sparkle in His court.
The false are pushed behind, because of falsehood and deceit in their mind they suffer great pain.
Black are the faces of the lairs. The false remain but false.
Slok 4th Guru.
The True Guru is the field of faith. As a man sows there-in, so does he gather the fruit.
The Guru's Sikhs sow Nectar and obtain God as their Necterean fruit.
Their faces are bright in this world and the next one. In God's true court they are clothed with robe of honour.
Some have malice in their heart they ever act maliciously. As they plant, so is the fruit they eat.
All the self-servers are laid bare, when Satguru, the tester, sees with the searching glance.
As they meditate, so do they, ever, obtain, and so God makes them known.
Nanak, the Lord Himself pervades both (the good and bad) ends. He ever, enacts and beholds various plays.
4th Guru.
The one Lord is contained in every man. Whatever he attaches with, in that he succeeds
The mortal may talk much, yet he eats only the article which is in his home.
Without the True Guru, understanding is not obtained, nor does pride depart from within.
Anguish and hunger cling to the proud. They put out their hand and beg from hose to house.
Falsehood and fraud remain not concealed. Gliding and adulteration do finally fail.
The Lord incarnate Satguru comes and meets him who is so fated from the beginning.
As iron becomes gold by touching the philosopher's stone, so does man become invaluable by meeting Guru's congregation.
O Lord, Thou art the Master of slave Nanak. As Thou willest, so doest Thou lead him.
Pauri.
Who heartily serve Lord, him the Lord unites with Himself.
I entered into partnership of merits with them and burn all the demerits with the fire of God's Name.
The sins are brought cheap like straw. He alone obtains the virtues, whom the true Lord gives.
Devoted am I unto my Guru, who effacing sins has manifested virtues unto me.
The Guru-ward utters the great glory of the great Lord.
Slok, 4th Guru.
Great is the greatness in the True Guru, who night and day ponders on the Name of Lord God.
The repetition of Lord Master's Name alone is his purity and self-restraint. With God's Name he is sated.
God's Name is his power and God's Name his prop. God's Name alone protects him.
He who heartily adores Guru's being obtains the boons his heart desires.
Who slanders the perfect True Guru him the Creator destroys.
That opportunity comes not his hand again. He Himself eats what he himself has sown.
Putting a halter round his neck, he shall be taken to the terrible hell with blackened face, like a thief.
When he again seeks, Satguru's protection and remembers Lord God's Name then is he saved.
Nanak utters and announces the proceeding of God's court. So it pleases God the Creator.
4th Guru.
He who obeys not the Perfect Guru's order is perverse and robbed by ignorance and poisonous mammon.
In his mind is falsehood and he deems everyone as false. The Lord has fastened superfluous strifes round his neck.
He prattles a good deal, but what he says pleases no one.
He wanders from house to house like an abandoned woman, whosoever associates with him, he too comes to bear evil mark.
Those turned Guru-wards, keep aloof from him. They leave his association and sit near the Guru.
He who avows not publicly his Guru is not a good person. He loses all his capital and profit O Saints.
Nanak previously the mortals recited and preached the Shastras and Vedas, but the Gurbani of the Perfect Guru has descended as the most exalted of all.
The eulogy of the perfect Guru is pleasing to the Sikhs of the Guru. The perverse have not that opportunity.
Pauri.
Verily the True Lord is the most exalted. He alone obtains Him whom the True Guru nominates.
He is the Satguru, who remembers the True Lord. True it is that the True Lord and the True Guru are one.
He is the Omnipotent Satguru who has resolutely subdued his five evil passions.
He who without serving the True Guru extols himself has falsehood within him. O curse and reproach be unto his dry face.
He is separated from the True Guru. His face is blackened and his talk of pleasing to none.
Slok 4th Guru.
Every body is the Lord God's filed. God Himself causes the tillage to be performed.
The Guru-ward grows the crop of God's Grace. The perverse person loses even his capital.
Everyone cultivates for his own good. God causes that field to germinate which he likes.
The disciple of the Guru sows God's elixir and obtains God's Nectarean Name as the ambrosial fruit.
The Death mouse ever gnaws the crop, but one God, the Creator, has beaten it off.
By Lord's love the crop did succeed and the corn heap was produced through God's Grace.
The Lord has removed all the burning and anxiety of those who have thought over the Omnipotent True Guru.
O slave Nanak he who ponders on the Name swims across himself and saves the whole world.
4Th Guru.
The perverse person is all day occupied with avarice though he talks otherwise.
At night he is over-powered by drowsiness and all his nine apertures get weakened.
On the head of an apostate is the order of the woman and he ever holds out good promises to her.
The men, who act as women tell them, are impure filthy and foolish.
The impure persons are engrossed in lust. They consult women and walk accordingly.
He who walks as the True Guru tells him he is the true man the best of the good.
He Himself has created all the women and men. God plays every play.
All the make that Thou hast made, O Nanak is the best of the best.
Pauri.
Thou O Lord art Care-free Unfathomable and Immeasurable. How can Thou be weighed
They who remember Thee, O Lord, and whom the True Guru has met. are very fortunate.
The Gurbani if the Satguru is the embodiment of Truth. Through Gurbani the mortal becomes perfect.
By way of emulating the True Guru some others utter filth bad and good sermons but because of falsehood, those false ones soon get devastated.
In their heart is one thing and in their mouth is quite another. They hanker after and pine away for the poisonous wealth.
Slok 4th Guru.
Consecrated is thy service of the True Guru The one who is pure he performs this service.
They who have deceit, wickedness and falsehood in their mind, those lepers the True Lord Himself separates away.
The True Sikhs sit by the side of the Guru and serve him. The false ones find no place even through search.
They to whom the words of the Satguru are not agreeable accursed are their countenances and condemned by God they wander about.
They who in their heart have not the love of God how long can those willful devils be consoled.
He who meets the True Guru keeps his mind fixed to its place. Furthermore his assets of God's Name he himself expends.
Uniting with the Guru the Lord grants peace to some, O serf Nanak. Some cheats He Himself quarantines.
4th Guru.
They who have the treasure of God's Name in their heart, the Lord causes their affairs to prosper.
They cease to be subservient to the people and taking their side the Lord God sits close to them.
When the Creator is on their side then everyone is on their side. By seeing their sight everyone applauds them.
Kings and emperors are all created by God. They all come and make obeisance unto the Lord's servant.
Great is the greatness of the perfect Guru by serving the great Lord I have obtained immeasurable peace.
To the Perfect Guru the Lord has given the permanent gift and what He has given increases day by day,
The Creator Himself destroys the Guru's slanderer, who cannot endure his greatness.
Slave Nanak utters the praises of the Creator who has ever been preserving His saints.
Pauri.
Thou O Unapproachable Kind and Wise Lord art the great Bestower.
I see none as great as Thee. Thou O wise Lord, art pleasing to my mind.
The love of family, and all else that is seen are fleeting and subject to coming and going.
They who attach their heart to any other than the True Lord are false and false is their pride.
Meditate thou on the True Lord, O Nanak. Without the True one the ignorant rot and putrefy to death.
Slok 4th Guru.
At first thou did not show respect to the Guru. Thine making excuses afterwards is of no avail.
The wretched apostate wanders half-way. How can he obtain peace by mere words?
He within whose heart is not the love of the True Guru, comes with a lie, and departs with a lie.
If my Lord God the Creator shows His mercy then the man sees the Satguru, to be an embodiment of the Transcendent Lord.
He drinks then the Nectar of Guru's hymns and all his burning, anxiety and doubt are annulled.
Day and night, he, ever, remains happy and always sings the praises of God O slave Nanak.
4th Guru.
He, who calls himself a Sikh of the Great True Guru, should rise early and meditate on God's Name.
He should make efforts early in the morning take bath and have ablution in the tank of Nectar.
By repeating Lords God's Name under Guru's instruction all his sins misdeeds and accusations are wiped off.
Afterwards at sun rise he sings Gurbani and whilst sitting or standing he meditates in God's Name.
The Guru's disciple who with every breath and morsel contemplates over my Lord God he becomes pleasing to Guru's mind.
He unto whom my Master becomes merciful to that disciple of his, the Guru imparts his instruction.
Servant Nanak asks for the dust of the feet of that Sikh of the Guru, who himself contemplates on God's Name and makes others contemplate thereon.
Pauri.
Rare are the ones who meditate on Thee, O True Lord.
They who mentally and heartily contemplate on the Unique One through their auspiciousness myraids and millions are fed.
All the creation ponders on Thee. Only they are accepted who are pleasing to the Lord.
The lepers who eat and dress without serving the True Guru, suffer transmigration after death.
In the presence of the Guru they talk sweetly but at his back they exude dissolved poison from their mouth.
The evil-minded are separated by God.
Slok 4th Guru.
The unfaithful man puts on his unfaithful servant the blue-black patched coat filled with filth and vermin.
No one in the world allows him to sit near Him. He the apostate fell into ordure and returned with still more filth attached to him.
The apostate was sent to slander and back bite others but there too the faces of both the perverse persons were got blackened.
It was instantly heard in the whole world my brethren that the willful man along with his servant was shoe-beaten. With addled brains they arose and returned home.
The perverse person for the future, was not allowed to mix with society of the fathers in law of his children. Then his wife and niece went and brought him home again to lie down.
He has lost both this world and the world hereafter, Hungry and thirsty he ever cries out.
Blessed blessed is the Omnipotent Lord the Creator who sitting in the judgement seat has Himself caused the real justice to be done.
Him who slanders the Perfect True Guru the True Lord punishes and destroys.
This Word is uttered by Him who has created the whole world.
4th Guru.
He whose Master is a pauper; whence can his servant eat to repletion?
If there be something in the Master's house that his servant can get but wherefrom can he get what there is not?
By performing whose service the account is still called for that service is hurtful indeed,
Nanak perform thou the service of the Divine Guru whose very sight is profitable and no account shall, afterwards be taken from thee.
Pauri.
Nanak, the holy men think and the four Vedas tell,
that the words which the saints utter with their mouth come to pass.
In His workshop, He appears manifest. All people hear of it.
The pigheaded persons who tussle with the saints obtain not peace.
They (the saints) desire virtues for them but they burn with pride.
What can those wretched do, since from the very beginning their fate is evil?
They who are smitten by the Supreme Lord are of no one's property.
It is real justice that they who bear enmity with the Uninimical should perish.
They whom the saints have cursed continue wandering about.
When the tree is cut by the roots its branches wither off.
Slok 4th Guru.
Grate is the greatness of the Guru, who within his mind contemplates over God.
By His pleasure the Lord has given it to the perfect Satguru. By any one's diminishing it diminishes not even by an iota.
The True Lord is on the side of the True Guru. Then all the men opposed to the Satguru, worry and die.
God the Creator blackens the countenances of the slanderers Guru's glory He Himself increases.
As the calumniators, calumniate the Guru so does his glory magnify day by day.
Slave Nanak has meditated on God who has made everyone fall at his feet.
4th Guru.
He who enters into reckoning with the True Guru loses all this world and the world hereafter.
He ever grinds his teeth, foams at his mouth and perishes talking wildly.
He, ever strives for riches and wealth but even his former wealth flees away.
What shall he earn and what shall he eat, in whose heart is the pain of anxiety.
He who bears enmity to the Uninimical one bears all the sins of the world on his head.
He whose mouth blisters by uttering the slander of his heart, finds no shelter here and hereafter.
If he handles gold then it turns into and mixes with dust.
If he again enters Guru's protection then his previous sins are pardoned.
Servant Nanak has night and day meditated on the Name. By remembering God the sins and wickedness are erased. (excused).
Pauri.
Thou art the Truest of the true The most exalted is thine court.
They who contemplate over Thee O True Lord work for truth Thou O true one art their just pride.
Within them is truth their faces are bright they tell the truth and Thou O True One art their might.
They alone are the saints, who through the Guru, praise Thee and who possess the standard of True Name.
Verily, I am devoted and ever a sacrifice unto those who serve the True Lord.
Slok 4th Guru.
They who were blighted by the Perfect Satguru from the beginning have now been cursed by the True Guru.
The Creator allows them not to meet the Satguru, even though they may desire much to associate with him.
In the society of saints they find no shelter. Thus the Guru has expressed his opinion in the guild of saints.
Whosoever goes and meets them now him the tyrant courier of death destroys.
They who were cursed by the Primal Guru remained cursed and were declared counterfeit by Guru Angad Dev.
The Guru in the third generation thought "What does lie in the hand of these poor people?"
The Satguru, who nominated the Guru in the fourth generation, he saved all the slanderers and miscreants.
Let any son or disciple of the True Guru, perform his service, then all his affairs, the Guru sets aright.
He who takes and dedicates his children property and wealth unto the Guru obtains the desired boons and him the Lord floats across the life-sea.
All the treasures are in the True Guru who has installed God within his mind.
He alone obtains the Perfect True Guru on whose brow an auspicious writ is recorded.
Serf Nanak prays for the dust of the feet of those Sikhs of the Guru, who are sweet unto God the Friend.
4th Guru.
They whom the Lord Himself gives greatness He Himself brings the world as well to fall at their feet.
Then alone we may fear if we do anything ourselves. The Creator is in every way magnifying His might.
Look, brethren, this is the arena of the beloved True God who by His power has brought all to bow.
The Lord God preserves His saints and gets blackened the countenances of the slanderers and the villains.
The greatness of the True Guru increases day by day. The Lord ever Himself causes His saints to celebrate His praise.
Night and day repeat the Name, O ye Sikhs, of the Guru and through the True Guru, implant God the Creator in your hearts.
O the disciples of the Guru know that the Satguru's hymns are perfectly true. God the Creator Himself causes the Guru to utter them with his mouth.
The beloved God makes bright the faces of the disciples of the Guru and causes the whole world to pay homage to the Guru.
Serf Nanak is the servant of God. Of the God's servants God Himself preserves the honour.
Pauri.
O my true King, Thou Thyself are my True Lord.
My Master I am a merchant of Thine. Implant in me the genuine capital of Thine Name.
I serve the True One, deal in truth and utter the praise of the wonderous Lord.
The persons who are adorned with the Guru-given Name, meet the Master by imbibing the sentiments of a slave.
Thou O True Lord, art Incomprehensible. Through Guru's Word alone Thou art comprehended.
Slok 4th Guru.
He in whose heart there is jealousy, for others never gathers any good.
None heeds what he says. He is a fool, ever crying in wilderness.
He in whose heart is back-biting is known as a back-biter, Everything he has done or he does goes in vain.
He ever back-bites others, he cannot show his face to any one as it has become black.
In the dark age the body is the field of actions. As one sows there in so does he eat.
Justice is not administered on mere talk. By eating poison one dies forthwith.
My brethren behold the justice of the True Creator, As any one acts so is his reward.
God as imparted all understanding to serf Nanak and he explain the words of His court.
4th Guru.
They who are separated from the Guru who is present with them find no refuge in God's court.
If some one goes and meets those slanderers with insipid faces. He will find all spume on their mouth.
They who are cursed by the True Guru are accursed of the whole world and ever remain
They who publicly own not their Guru, wander about loudly groaning.
Their hunger never departs and stricken with hunger and want they ever, shriek aloud.
None hears what they say. They are ever dying in dire dread.
They cannot bear the True Guru's greatness. They find no shelter here and here-after.
Whosoever goes to meet those blighted by the True loses all the remnant of his honour.
Cursed by the Guru they, they have already become lepers whosoever meets them is afflicted with leprosy.
My God! I see not the sight of those who fix their mind on another's love.
There is no escape from that what the Creator Himself wrote in the beginning.
O servant Nanak meditate thou on God's Name whom none can equal.
Great is the greatness of Lord's Name and day by day, it goes on increasing.
4th Guru.
Magnificent is the greatness of the person whom Guru (Angad Dev) in his presence anointed as the Guru.
The world bows to him all fall at his feet. His praise is filling the world.
Unto him the continents and universe make obeisance. He, on whose forehead the Perfect Guru places his hand becomes perfect.
The greatness of the Guru increases with each day. None can equal it.
O Slave, Nanak God the Creator Himself appointed (Guru Amar Das) and Himself the Lord preserves his honour.
Pauri.
The human body is a grand fort, with shops therein.
The Guru-ward, who comes to trade takes care of the cargo of God's Name.
We should purchase the treasure of the jewels and corals of God's Name.
They who search the Lord's riches, outside, the body at any other place are the foolish devils.
In doubt they wander about in wilderness like the deer who searches for the musk in the bushes.
Slok 4th Guru.
He who calumniates the Perfect True Guru, runs into difficulty in this world.
He is caught and thrown into the terrible hell a well of miseries.
No one listens to his cries and lamentation. He becomes miserable and bewails.
He wholly loses this world and the next one. The capital and profit all he has lost.
He is like the bullock of an oil man. His Master ever yokes him when he rises in the morning
God ever sees and hears everything. Nothing remains concealed from him.
As man sows so shall he reap, as he is reaping now what he formerly sowed.
He to whom the Lord shows His mercy, washes the feet of the True Guru.
Like iron attached with timber he floats across in the wake of the Great True Guru.
O slave Nanak, meditate thou On the Name. By repeating the Name of Lord God peace is obtained.
4th Guru.
Very fortunate are the brides who through the Guru, have met their Lord the King.
Nanak God's light has illumined their heartland they are absorbed in His Name.
Pauri.
This body in whose heart is the light of the True One is wholly meant to practise virtue.
Within it are hid the mysterious jewels. Some rare slave through the Guru mines them out.
When the mortal realises the All-pervading soul then does he see the One Lord contained everywhere and the only One interwoven like warp and woof.
He sees the One Lord he believers in the One Lord and with his ears he hears the tidings of the Lord alone.
Praise thou the Lord's Name O slave Nanak This is thy service of the Truest of the True.
Slok 4th Guru.
All the pleasures are in the mind of those within whose heart God abides.
In God's court their faces are bright and all go to see them.
They who meditate on the Name of the Fearless One have no fear.
They who are so pre-ordained, remember the Sublime Lord.
They in whose heart God abides are robed in God's court.
They swim across with their entire family and in their wake the hole world is saved.
My God unite the servant Nanak with Thine slaves by continually beholding whom he sustains life
4th Guru.
That Land where my True Guru comes and sits grows green.
The creatures who go and see my True Guru become reverdured.
O Mother hail, hail to the father hail, hail to the family hail, hail, to the good mamma, who gave birth to the Guru.
Blessed, blessed is the Guru, who meditate on the Name He saves himself and saves those who see him.
O God mercifully cause me to meet the True Guru, that serf Nanak may wash his feet.
Pauri.
Truest of the true is the immortal Satguru, who has treasures up God within his heart.
Truest of the true is the omnipotent Satguru, who has killed lust, wrath and vice.
When I see the perfect Satguru, then, my mind, inwardly, secures support.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru and am ever and ever devoted and dedicated unto him.
The Guru-wards win the life game and the self-wards lose it.
Slok 4th Guru.
He, whom, by His grace the Lord introduces to the True Guru through the Guru, utters the Name, with his mouth.
He does what pleases the true Guru, and the Perfect Guru gives him seat in his home.
The Lord removes all the fear of those, who have the Name treasure in their heart.
Many bother, worry and die in trying to harm those whom the Lord Himself protects.
O serf Nanak, remember thou the Name and the Lord shall deliver thee here and hereafter.
4th Guru.
The glory of the great True Guru is pleasing to the mind of the Guru's Sikhs.
God preserves the True Guru's honour which increases with each day.
In the mind of the great Satguru abides the Transcendent Lord and the Transcendent Lord protects him.
Of the great Satguru God is the power and prop. He has brought all to bow before him.
The Lord effaces all the sins of those who have seen my True Guru with love.
Bright become their countenances in God's court and they get great glory.
Serf Nanak, asks for the dust of those brethren of his who are the disciples of the Guru.
Pauri.
I utter and eulogise the praise of the True One. True is the glory of the True Lord.
I eulogise the True Lord and the praise of the True Lord. None knows the worth of the True one.
They, who enjoy the True Lord's true elixir, remain sated and satiated.
Like the dumb person's eating sweets they can only realise the deliciousness of this Nectar of God.
The Perfect Guru performs the service of the Lord God and people congratulate him.
Salok 4th Guru.
They who have carbuncle within knows its pain.
I am ever a sacrifice unto those who realise the pang of separation from God.
O Omnipotent God unite me with the Guru the friend. My head is a sacrifice unto him and shall roll under his feet.
I am a slave of the slaves of those disciples of the Guru who perform his service.
Drenched in God's love are the raiment of those who are imbued with the fast red dye of the Lord.
My master mercifully cause Nanak to meet the Guru to whom he has sold his head for consideration.
4th Guru.
The body is full of sins. How can this become pure, O saints?
Through the Guru the virtues are purchased which wash off the filth of pride.
True is the trade of buying the True Load with love.
Like this man never suffers a loss and earns profit as is the will of that Lord.
Nanak they alone purchase the True Name who are gifted with such a pre-ordained writ.
Pauri.
I praise the True One who is worthy of praise. Verily the True Lord is unique.
By serving the True Being truth abides in the mind. God, the Truest of the true is my preserver.
They who remember the Truest of the true go and blend with the True Lord.
They who serve not the Truest of the true are foolish and self-conceited devils.
With their mouth they talk high and low. like the drunkard who has quaffed wine.
Salok 3rd Guru.
Gauri Rag is auspicious if in it man remembers His Master.
He should walk in the will of the True Guru, such decoration he ought to make.
The True Word is mortal's spouse Ever and ever, he should enjoy it.
As is the deep red dye of boiled madder such a dye thou shalt have by devoting thy soul to the True Lord.
She who bears love to the True One is thoroughly dyed like the dye of the tulip.
Falsehood and deception wrapped up in false gilding remain not undetected.
False is the uttering of praises of those who love falsehood.
Nanak God alone is True and He Himself casts His favourable glance.
4th Guru.
In the saints guild God's praise is sung. By associating with the saints the Beloved is met.
Amongst men blest is that mortal being who imparts instruction for the good of others.
God's Name he enjoins and God's Name he preaches. Through God's Name the world is emancipated.
all long to see the Guru. The world of nine continents bows before him.
Thine ownself Thou hast places in the True Guru and Thou Thyself has bedecked the Guru, O Lord.
My Creator Thou Thyself adorest the True Guru and causest others to adore him.
If some one separates himself from the True Guru his face goes black and him the death's courier destroys.
The Guru's disciples have realised in their mind that here and hereafter he shall find no shelter.
The man who meets the True Guru and who in his mind remembers the Name is saved.
O ye, Sikhs and sons of the Guru meditate on the Lord God and He shall deliver you says slave Nanak.
3rd Guru.
Egotism mal-intellect and the poison of sin have led astray the world.
If an apostate who is in total darkness meets the True Guru then he comes to possess vision.
Nanak the Lord blends with Himself the mortal whom He causes to love His Name.
Pauri.
True is the glory and praise of the True One. He alone undertakes it whose mind is softened
They, who meditate on the Unique One with single mind their body never perishes.
Blessed blessed and praiseworthy is the person who with his tongue tastes the True Name Nectar.
The man to whose mind the Truest of the true is pleasing becomes acceptable in the True court.
Hail hail unto the birth of the true persons, whose faces the True Lord renders bright.
Slok 4th Guru.
The mammon-worshippers go and bow to the Guru but their mind is base and filled with utter falsehood.
When the Guru says "Rise and work, My brethren", they get crammed in some how and sit like cranes.
The True Guru abides among his Sikhs. They pick up and expel the wanderers.
Sitting here and there they conceal their face and being counterfeit they mix not with the genuine.
There is no food for them there. The false go and find filth like sheep.
If we desire to feed and apostate person he will spew and throw out poison from his mouth.
O God give me not the company of the mammon worshipper. He is accursed of the Creator.
He to whom this play belongs does and beholds it. Servant Nanak remembers Lord's Name.
4th Guru.
Unfathomable is the person of the True Guru, who has treasured up God within his heart.
None can equal the True Guru on whose side the Creator Himself is.
God's meditation is the sword and armour of the True Guru with which he has destroyed and cast off death the torturer.
God Himself is the protector of the True Guru. The Lord saves all who follow in the foot-steps of the True Guru.
The maker Himself smites him who thinks evil of the perfect True Guru.
This word is of the court of the True God. Servant Nanak utters this prophecy.
Pauri.
They who remember the True Lord while asleep utter the True Name when awake.
Rare are known to be such beings in the world who contemplate over the True Lord, through the Guru.
I am devoted unto those who night and day repeat the True Name.
They to whose mind and body the True Lord is pleasing arrive at the True court.
Slave Nanak, utters the True Name. Verily the True Lord is ever brand new.
Slok 4th Guru.
What is sleeping and what is waking? Those turned Guru-wards they are approved.
They who with every breath and morsel forget not the Lord are the perfect and distinguished persons.
By God's grace they obtain the True Guru and night and day fix their attention on God.
I continue to mix with the society of those persons and I obtain honour in God's court.
Whilst asleep they utter Lord's glories and praises and when awake they eulogise Him as well.
Nanak bright are the faces of those who daily arise early and remember God.
4th Guru.
By serving his True Guru man obtains the Name of the Infinite Lord.
Guru the giver, gives the gift of God's Name and pulls out the drowning man from the dreadful world-ocean.
Blest blest are the bankers who deal in the trade of God's Name.
The Sikh pedlars come and with God's Name the Guru ferries them across.
They alone serve the Creator, O Slave Nanak on whom is God's grace.
Pauri.
They who meditate on the Truest of the true are truly the devoted slaves of the True Lord.
The Guru-wards who make a thorough search they find the True One within themselves.
They who heartily serve the True Master overwhelm and vanquish the thorny death.
Verily, the True One is the highest of all. They who serve the True One blend with the True One.
Blessed is the Truest of the true One blooms by serving the Truest of the true.
Slok 4th Guru.
Foolish is the perverse person without the Lord's Name he wanders about.
Without the Guru his mind becomes not steady and he enters womb again and again.
When the Lord God Himself becomes merciful then alone the Guru comes and meets the man.
Praise thou God's Name, O slave Nanak that thy pain of birth and death may end.
4th Guru.
With superb love, I praise my Guru in many a way.
With the True Guru my mind is imbued. The Guru has beautifully preserved it.
My tongue is not sated by praising the Guru who has attached my mind with God the Beloved.
Nanak mind has the hunger for the Name and mind is satiated by tasting God's elixir.
Pauri.
Truly, the True Lord who has made days and nights is known through His Omnipotence.
Ever, ever I praise that True one, True are the praises of the True one.
True is the praiseworthy Lord and true is His praise. None has ever appraised the True Lord's worth.
When the perfect True Guru is met then manifest are seen His glories.
The Guru-wards who sing the praise of the True Lord all their hungers are stilled. (over).
Slok 4th Guru.
Thoroughly searching my mind and body I have found that Lord whom I wanted.
I have attained to Guru the mediator who has united me with the Lord God.
3rd Guru.
The man attached to mammon is very blind and deaf.
He hears not the Name and makes a great uproar and tumult.
The pious persons are known by enshrining live for Lord's Name.
They hear and believe in God's Name and in God's Name they are absorbed.
Whatever pleases Him that He does and causes to be done.
Nanak human being the instrument plays as the Lord causes him to play.
Pauri.
Thou O creator knowest every thing which is taking place within the mortals minds.
Thou thyself art Incomputable Maker. The entire world is within calculation.
Everything comes to pass as Thou directest all are created by Thee.
O True Lord, Thou alone art contained in every heart. This play is all Thine.
He who meets the True Guru meets God and none can turn him back.
Slok 4th Guru.
Let this mind be kept steady and attention on the Lord be focused through the Guru.
Why should we ever forget Him sitting and standing and with every breath and morsel of ours?
Now that I have given over this soul under the control of Lord God my anxiety of death and birth has ceased.
As it pleases Thee, so do Thou save slave Nanak and grant Thine Name.
3rd Guru.
The proud apostate knows not Guru's court. He remains a little hither of a little thither.
Though ever invited he goes not to Guru's court. How shall he be accepted in God's court?
Some rare one knows Guru's court and who knows it ever stands with clasped hands.
Nanak if my God shows mercy he restores man to Guru's court.
Pauri.
Profitable is the performance of that service with which the True Guru's mind is pleased.
When the mind of the True Guru is propitiated then the sins and evil-deeds flee.
with their ears, the Sikhs hear the instruction which the True Guru imparts.
They who submit to the True Guru's will are imbued with fourfold dye (of love).
This is the peculiar way of life of the Guru's Sikhs, that their soul flowers by hearing Guru's teaching.
Slok 3rd Guru.
He who disowns his Guru has no place or abode.
This world and the world hereafter he loses, both and finds not room in God's court.
This chance of falling at the True Guru's feet cannot be attained to again.
Were man to miss being counted amongst the disciples of the True Guru he shall pass his life in deep distress.
The Omnipotent Satguru is without enmity, with himself he attaches any, whom he likes.
Nanak at a God's court, the Guru secures the release of those whom he has caused to see Lord's sight.
3rd Guru.
The self-willed person is spiritually blind, evil-minded and arrogant.
Within him is wrath and he loses his sense as if in a gamble.
He commits the sins of falsehood and unrighteousness.
What can he hear and what can he tell others?
He is blind and deaf and losing his way he strays into wilderness.
The blind apostate continues coming and going.
Without meeting the True Guru he finds no place of rest.
Nanak he acts according to pre ordained writ.
Pauri.
They whose hearts are hard sit not near the True Guru.
Truth prevails there and the liars feel mentally depressed.
By hook and crook they pass their time and again go and sit with the false ones.
In truth falsehood mixes not O my soul see this through verification.
The false ones go and mix with the false ones. The true Sikhs sit by the side of the True Guru.
Slok 5th Guru.
By making effort, the Lord has Himself destroyed the remnants of slanderers.
O Nanak Lord the succour of saints is manifestly pervading every-where.
5th Guru.
They who go astray from the Primal being from the very beginning where can they find refuge?
Nanak they are smitten by Him, who is Omnipotent to do all works.
Pauri 5th Guru.
Taking halters men go out at night to strangle others but the Lord knows all O mortal.
Concealed in places they look at other women.
They break into places, difficult of access, and enjoy wine deeming it sweet.
Over their respective misdeeds they shall themselves misdeeds, they shall themselves afterwards regret.
Azrail the courier of death, shall crush them like the mill full of sesame.
Slok 5th Guru.
They who are the servants of the True king become acceptable.
Nanak the ignorant who serve others they rot putrefy and die.
5th Guru.
The destiny which the Lord wrote in the beginning cannot be erased.
The wealth of Pervading God's Name is Nanak's capital and he ever meditates on it.
Pauri 5th Guru.
Where can he place his foot, who has received a kick, from the Lord?
He commits numberless sins and ever, eats poison.
Slandering others he pines away to death.
Within his body he continues burning. Who can save him, whom the True Lord has smitten?
Nanak has entered His asylum who is the Unseen Lord.
Slok 5th Guru.
In the terrible hell there is very much suffering. It is an abode of the ungrateful.
They are smitten by that Lord and they die a miserable death, O Nanak.
5th Guru.
Many sorts of medicines are prepared but there is no cure for the slanderer.
They whom the Lord himself misleads rot and putrefy in existences, O Nanak.
Pauri 5th Guru.
The perfect Satguru has in his mercy blessed me with the inexhaustible wealth of the Name of True God.
All my anxieties have ceased and I am rid of the fear of death.
The lust, wrath and other evils are stilled in the saints guild.
Sans the True Lord those who serve another, die like a larva.
The Guru has pardoned Nanak and he is united with God's Name.
Slok 4th Guru.
He is not a penitent, whose heart is greedy and who ever hankers after wealth like a leper.
When he was first called he declined to accept the esteemed alms but repenting afterwards he brought his son and seated him amongst the assemblage.
The village elders all began to laugh, saying that the wave of avarice has destroyed the penitent.
The penitent draws not near that place where he sees little wealth. Beholding much wealth, the penitent forfeits his faith.
O brother he is not a penitent but a heron. Sitting together the saintly persons have so decided.
The penitent calumniates the True person and sings the praise of the world. For this sin the Lord has accursed him.
Behold the fruit the penitent gathers, for slandering the great persons. All his labours have gone in vain.
When he sits outside among the elect he is called a penitent. When he sits within the penitent commits sin. God has laid hare and shown his secret sin to the elect.
The Righteous judge said to the death courier, "Take this penitent and place (keep) him, where the greatest of the great murderers are".
Let no one look at the face of this penitent again. He is accursed of the True Guru.
Nanak tells and preaches, that what has taken place in God's court. He alone whom God had regenerated understands it.
4th Guru.
God's saints meditate on God and sing God's praise.
The devotees ever sing God's praise. God's name is the giver of peace.
God ever bestows on His saint the glory of the Name which increases day by day.
God firmly seats His saints in their house and protects His own honour.
The slanderers the Lord shall call to account and will severely punish them.
As the calumniators, mentally act, so is the fruit they obtain.
The deed done in secrecy assuredly comes to light even though one were to do it underground.
Serf Nanak has become jubilant on beholding the magnificence of God.
Pauri 5th Guru.
God Himself is the Protector of His saintly persons. What can a sinner do?
The proud fool practises pride and dies by eating poison.
The few days he had to live are at an end and he shall be cut down like a ripe crop.
As are the actions the man commits so is he spoken of.
Great is the Spouse of servant Nanak. He is the master of all.
Slok 4th Guru.
In greed, avarice and pride the self -willed forget the Primal Lord.
In wrangling they pass their night and day and deliberate not over the Name.
The Creator has taken away all their pure understanding and they talk all evil.
With no gift whatever they feel contented. In their heart are inordinate desire, ignorance and darkness.
Nanak, it is good to break away from the perverse who bear love and attachment to mammon.
4th Guru.
They within whom duality abides love not the pious persons.
They come and go and wander in transmigration and have no peace even in dream.
They practise falsehood thy utter falsehood and attached with falsehood they become false.
The love of wealth is all trouble. In trouble man perishes and through trouble he bewails.
Nanak, there is no union between worldliness and love of God however all may desire it.
They whose treasure contains meritorious acts, obtain peace through Guru's instruction.
Pauri 5th Guru.
Nanak the saints and the silent sages think and the four Vedas tell,
that the words which the devotees utter with there mouth, come to pass.
In His workshop, He appears manifest. All people hear of it.
The pig-headed persons, who tussle with the saints, obtain not peace.
They (the saints)desire virtue for them, but they burn with self-conceit.
What can those wretches do since from the very beginning their fate is evil?
They who are smitten by the Supreme Lord are no One's property.
It is real justice that they who bear enmity with the Uninimical, should perish.
They whom the saints have cursed continue wandering about.
When the tree is cut at the roots, its branches wither off.
Slok 5th Guru.
Within me Guru Nanak has fixed the Name of God who is potent to create and destroy.
My friend, if thou ever remember the Lord all thine troubles would come to an end.
5th Guru.
The hungry man minds not honour, dishonour and obscene words.
Nanak prays for Thy Name, O God show Thine mercy and unite me with Thyself.
Pauri.
As are the deeds, the man commits, so are the fruits which he gathers.
If one chews the hot steel iron, it causes roasting in the throat.
on account of his evil deeds, putting halter around his neck, deaths courier goads him on.
No desire of his is fulfilled. He ever steals other's filth (slander other).
The ungrateful one feels not indebted for the favour shown and wanders in existence.
He loses all the props, of one Lord is snatched away from him.
He did not let the ember of strife die, therefor the creator has smitten him.
They, who indulge in ego, crumble and fall to the ground.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The Guru-ward is blessed with Divine knowledge and discriminating intellect.
He sings God's praises and strings their garland in his heart.
He becomes purest of the pure and a man of highest wisdom.
He saves him, who meets Him.
Within his heart is contained the perfume of God's Name.
He attains honour in God's court and has supremely sublime speech.
The person, who hears him, he is exceedingly delighted.
On meeting the True Guru, Nanak has obtained the wealth and property of God's Name.
4th Guru.
The condition of the Perfect True Guru's mind and what does please him no one knows.
The true Guru is pervading the hearts of the Guru's Sikhs.
They perform the service and say the prayers as the True Guru enjoins them. The True Lord accepts the service of the Sikhs of the Guru.
The Guru's disciple, shall not again draw near him who desires to have some work done by the Sikhs of the Guru, without the True Guru's order.
The Sikh of the Guru renders service unto the person who heartily works for the great True Guru.
He who comes for deception and who arises and goes for deception; near him the disciple of the Guru draws not ever.
Lord's discourse Nanak proclaim and preaches. He who without propitiating the True Guru's mind does some deed that person suffers great misery.
Pauri.
Thou, O True Lord art very great. As great as Thee thou alone art. Thou art the greatest of the great.
He whom Thou unitest unites with Thee. Thou unitest unites with thee. Thou thyself forgivest him and ingorest his account.
Whom thou unitest with Thy self he whole-heartedly serves the True Guru.
Thou art True Thou art the True Lord. My soul body skin and bones are all Thine.
As it pleases Thee, so do thou save me, O my True Lord O the highest of the high, Thine hope alone, Nanak cherishes within his mind.
Gauri Ki War. 5th  Guru. To be sung on the tune of the Var of Rai Kamal Maujdi.
There is but one God By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Slok 5th Guru.
Acceptable is the advent of the man, who remembers the Name of the Lord God.
I am a sacrifice unto that person who meditates on the Unattached Lord.
For Him the agony of birth and death is annulled and he meets God the Omniscient Lord.
By associating with the society of saints he crosses the world-ocean, and O slave Nanak he has the true Porp of the one God.
5th Guru.
Rising early let God's saint visit my home like a guest.
I wash his feet and he is ever pleasing to my soul and body.
The Name I hear the name I amass and with the Name I develop love.
My home and wealth are all sanctified by singing the praises of God.
The purchaser of God's Name, O Nanak is found through the greatest food fortune.
Pauri.
Whatever please Thee that is good ever-true is thine will.
Thou alone art working in all and art contained amongst everything.
Thou art diffused through all the places and inter spaces and art known to be within the mortals.
Submitting to his will the True Lord is obtained by joining the society of saints.
Nanak seeks the refuge of the Lord and is ever, ever a sacrifice unto Him.
Slok 5th Guru.
If this thing occurs to thee than remember that Lord thy Master.
Embark on the ship of the service of the True Guru and cross the terrible world-ocean.
5th Guru.
The proud fools wear the clothes of wind.
Nanak they go not with the mortal and are burnt to ashes.
Pauri.
They alone are delivered in the world whom the True Lord preserves.
I live by beholding the faces of those who taste God's Nectar.
Lust wrath, avarice and worldly love are burnt down in the saints congregation.
Lord God Himself tests and assays those unto whom He extends His mercy.
Nanak! Lord's plays are not known. No one can understand them.
Slok 5th Guru.
Nanak beautiful is the day when the Lord comes into mind.
But accursed is the day and season, however pleasant when the supreme Lord is forgotten.
5th Guru.
Contract friendship with Him, O Nanak, in whose hands lies every thing.
They are accounted false friends who go not a step with one.
Pauri.
The nectar is the treasure of God's Name. Meet together and quaff it, O my brethren.
By remembering whom peace is obtained and all the thirst is slaked.
Serve thou the Transcendent Lord and the Guru that thou mayest hunger no more.
All thy desire shall be fulfilled and thou shalt obtain an immortal status.
As great as Thee, Thou alone art O my Supreme Lord. Nanak seeks Thine protection.
Slok 5th Guru.
I have seen all the places. There is no place without the Master.
Nanak they who meet the True Guru attain to their object.
5th Guru.
Brief like the flash of lightening are the worldly ostentations.
Pleasing thing is only that, O Nanak, by which one meditates on the Name of that Master.
Pauri.
Men have searched all the Simritis and Shastras but none has found Lord's worth.
The person who meets the society of saints he enjoys God's love.
True is the Name of the Omnipotent creator. It is the mine of jewels.
The mortal on whose forehead such destiny is recorded, meditates on God.
O Lord, grant Nanak thy guest, the True Name as his viaticum.
Slok 5th Guru.
Within the man is anxiety, but to eyes he appears to be happy and his hunger never departs.
Nanak without the True Name no man's sorrow has ever departed.
5th Guru.
The caravans who load no Truth to carry with them are beguiled.
Nanak they who meeting the True Guru, recognise the Unique One are congratulated.
Pauri.
Beautiful is the place where the pious person sit.
They serve their Omnipotent Lord and their sins are all shed.
The saints and vedas say, that the Supreme Lord is the Saviour of sinners.
The lover of saints is Thine qualitative Name. In every age Thou has been so doing.
Nanak asks for the One Name which is pleasing to his soul and body.
Slok 5th Guru.
with the chirping of the sparrow and breaking of dawn, many currents arise in the man.
In the love of God's Name the saints create a wondrous phenomenon.
5th Guru.
The home, mansion and enjoyments are there, where Thou art heartily remembered.
The worldly grandeurs are all like evil friends, O Nanak.
Pauri.
God's wealth is the true capital. Some rare one understands This.
He alone receives it, O brethren, to whom the Destiny-scribe gives.
God's slave is imbued with the love of God who is looming forth in his mind and body.
In the society of saints he sings Lord's praises and so rids himself of all the agonies.
Nanak, he alone lives, who recognises the One Lord.
Slok 5th Guru.
The celandine fruits look beauteous, attached to the parent stalk.
On severence of love with their Master, they are reduced into thousands of fragments, O Nanak.
5th Guru.
They who forget the Lord die, but they cannot die altogether.
They who turn away from the Lord suffer agony, like a thief on the gallows.
Pauri.
I have heard the one Lord to be the treasure of imperishable peace.
God is said to be fully filling the ocean, sky and every heart.
He looks equally adorned amongest all the high and low, an ant and an elephant.
The friends, comrades, sons and relatives are all created by Him.
Whomsoever, O Nanak, God by His pleasure grants His Name, he enjoys His affection.
Slok 5th Guru.
Who with every breath and morsel of theirs, forget not God's Name and within whose mind is this spell,
they alone are the blessed and they alone are the perfect saints, O Nanak.
5th Guru.
In the anguish of eating, the man wanders about day and night.
How can he escape falling into the hell, when he remembers not his religious teacher?
Pauri.
Serve that Guru, O mortals, who in his lap, has Lord's Name.
Ye shall be comfortable here, and it shall go with ye hereafter.
Fix and unshakable pillars of the faith and built the home of true Devotion.
Enter ye the sanctuary of the Pervading God thus spiritual world and temporal world shall hail thee.
Nanak has grasped the feet of God and he has prostrated himself before His court.
Slok 5th Guru.
Give me O my Beloved, the beggar begs for alms.
The Giver benefactor, I have ever remembered Thee.
The immeasurable store houses of God never get exhausted.
Nanak, Infinite is the Lord's Name, which has arranged everything.
5th Slok.
Pracitse ye the Name, O beloved. Both in life and death it is our support.
By remembering the One Lord, O Nanak, our faces become bright and we ever, remain happy.
Pauri.
There in the society of saints the peace-bestowing to all, Nectar is distributed.
They are no put on the track to death and die not again.
He who enjoys Lord's Love endures its bliss.
The pious persons utter the words like the flowing of the Nectar spring.
Nanak lives by seeing the sight of such mortals who have places God's Name is their mind.
Slok 5th Guru.
By serving the perfect True Guru the pain come to an end.
Nanak, by meditating on the Name the affairs are set right.
5th Guru.
By remembering whom the calamities recede and man abides in peace and pleasure.
Nanak, ever meditate thou on God and even for a moment forget not His Name.
Pauri.
How should I recount the Praise of those, who have found their Lord God?
He who seeks the shelter of the saints is relieved of his bonds.
He who sings the praise of the Deathless One is not burnt in womb of existences.
He who meets the Guru and the Transcendent Lord, by reading about and understanding God, sits in trance.
Nanak has obtained that Lord Master who is Unapproachable and Unfathomable.
Slok 5th Guru.
The man performs not his duty and wanders about way-wardly in the world.
Nanak how shall he attain to peace, by forgetting the Name?
5th Guru.
The bitterness of sin is amongst all and is clinging to the world.
Nanak Lord's slave, has realised that God's Name alone is sweet.
Pauri.
This is the sign of the saint that by meeting him one is saved.
Death's myrmidon draws not near him and then he dies not again.
He swims across the poisonous and terrible world -ocean
Within thy mind weave the Divine garland of God's excellences and all thy filth shall be washed off.
Nanak remains blended with his Beloved the very powerful Transcendent Lord.
Slok 5th Guru.
Acceptable is the advent of those within whose mind the Lord abides.
The useless talk my friend is of no avail.
5th Guru.
I have seen the perfect inaccessible and wonderful Exalted Lord Master.
By the grace of the perfect Guru Nanak has made God's Name his wealth.
Pauri.
Fraud avails not with the spouse. Through avarice and worldly love the mortal is ruined.
The men commit evil deeds and are asleep in the ego of wealth.
Over and over again they are goaded into existences and are abandoned on death's track.
Yoked to pain they obtain the desert of their deeds.
Nanak evil are all the seasons when one forgets the Lord's Name.
Slok 5th Guru.
One abides in sublime peace whilst standing sitting and sleeping,
and one's mind and body are cooled by praising the Name. O Nanak!
5th Guru.
The mortal ever wanders about filled with avarice and odes not do any meritorious act.
Nanak that Lord abides within the mind of him whom the Guru meets.
Pauri.
Bitter are all other things. The True Lord's Name alone is sweet.
Those God's men and saints who taste it, realise the relish thereof.
The Name dwells within the mind of him foe whom the supreme Lord has so destined.
He sees the unique Pure Lord pervading everywhere and he destroys another's love.
With folded hands Nanak asks for God's Name, which by His pleasure the Lord has granted unto him.
Slok 5th Guru.
That is the best begging, which begs for the One Lord.
Except the Name of the Master all other talks are sinful, O Nanak.
5th Guru.
There is hardly any recogniser of God, whose mind is pierces through with His Love.
Evenly smooth shall be the path, O Nanak if the saint Guru be the uniter.
Pauri.
My soul serve thou Him who is the Bestower and the Forgiver.
All the sins are effaces by remembering the world-sustainer.
The saint has shown me the way to God and so I contemplate over Guru's hymns.
The relishes of the riches are al insipid. God alone is pleasing to my mind.
Meditate thou, O Nanak on the Supreme Lord, who has blessed thee with life.
Slok 5th Guru.
The opportune time to sow the True Name has arrived. He who sows it shall eat the fruit.
He, alone obtains (sows) it, in whose lot is so writ, O Nanak.
5th Guru.
If one is to beg then he should beg the One True Name. He alone obtains it, whom the Lord Himself by His pleasure, gives.
Nanak the Name is the Lord's gift by partaking of which the soul is sated.
Pauri.
They alone earn profit in the world who have the capital of the wealth of God's Name.
They know not another's love and place their hope in only the True Lord.
Stilling all other desires they serve the Eternal Lord alone.
Useless is the breath of him, who forgets the Lofty Lord.
Nanak is devoted unto Him who hugging to His breast saves His slave.
Slok 5th Guru.
The Supreme Lord so willed and the rain began to fall spontaneously.
Abundant grain and wealth were produced and the earth was thoroughly sated and satiated.
Ever and ever the saint utters Lord's Praise and his pain and poverty have fled away.
The mortal obtains what is preordained for Him. He receives according to His will.
Meditate thou on Him the Lord, O Nanak who keeps thee alive.
5th Guru.
To gain the immortal status remember thou the One pure Lord.
There is no other place. How can we be content with another?
I have seen the whole world, there is no peace without the Lord's Name.
The body and wealth shall become dust but hardly any one understands this.
Pleasure, beauty and relishes are vain. What are thou engaged in, O Mortal.
He whom God Himself deludes understands not His might.
They who are imbued with the love of the Pure Lord sing the True Name.
Nanak whosoever are pleasing to Thee, O Lord, seek the shelter at Thy door.
Pauri.
They who are attached to God's skirt suffer not birth and death.
They who are awake to God's praise are approved in their very life.
Very fortunate are they who get the society of saints.
Accursed is the life, which forgets the Name. It breaks like the frail thread.
Nanak the dust of saints feet is more sacred than lacs and millions of ablutions at Paryag.
Slok 5th Guru.
The heart wherein the love of Lord God abides is like the beauteous earth, studded with the gems of grass.
Nanak all the affairs become easy, when the great True Guru becomes pleased.
5th Guru.
The kite, roams and wanders in ten direction over waters, mountains and forests,
but comes and alights where is sees any carrion.
Pauri.
He who desires all comforts and gifts should practise Truth.
See thou the Supreme Lord near and meditate on the Name alone.
Be Thou the dust of the feet of all men and get blended with God.
Cause not annoyance to any being and go to thy Home with honour.
Nanak tells about the Name of the Lord Creator, the Purifier of the sinners.
Couplet 5th Guru.
I have made Him the Friend, who is capable of doing everything.
Onto Him my soul is a sacrifice, God is the wealth of my mind and body.
5th Guru.
My Beloved, if Thou catch me by the hand, I shall in no case forsake Thee.
Evil are the persons, who forsake God. They fall into the torments of hell.
Pauri.
All the treasure are in his home. Whatever the Lord does that comes to pass.
The holy-men live to contemplate and ponder over the Lord and so wash off their filth of sins.
By abiding Lord's lotus feet in the mind, all the calamities are annulled.
He who meets the Perfect Guru bewails not in birth and death.
For Lord's sight Nanak has a great thirst. By His grace, He has blessed Nanak with it.
Slok Dakhna 5th Guru.
If thou dispellest thy doubt a little and love the only Beloved,
thou shalt find Him present there, where ever thou goest.
5th Guru.
Can persons, knowing only the game of stick and ball (polo) mount horses and handle guns?
Can the fowls which have cock like flight succeed in their hearty wish to be at par with the swans?
Pauri.
He who utters God's Name with his tongue and hears it with his ears is saves, O my friend.
The hands which write God's praise with love, are pure.
Such person obtains the merit of ablutions at sixty eight holies and is deemed to have performed all the virtuous deeds.
He crosses the world -ocean and subjugates the castle of evil.
Nanak, serve thou the Infinite Lord, who by attaching thee to His skirt shall save thee.
Slok 5th Guru.
Unprofitable are the worldly affairs wherein the One Lord comes not in man's min.
Nanak, burst out hose bodies who forget the Master.
5th Guru.
He the Creator has transformed the ghost into an angel.
The Lord has emancipated all the disciples of the Guru and arranged their affairs.
Seizing the slanderers, God has hashed them to the ground and has declared them false in His court.
Great is Nanak's Lord. He Himself creates and adorns all.
Pauri.
Infinite is the Lord. He has no limit, It is He who does everything.
The Inaccessible and Inarpprehensible Lord is the supporter of the beings.
Giving His hand the Lord nourishes all. He is their Filler and Cherisher.
He Himself is merciful and forgiving. By remembering the True One the mortal is saved.
Whatever pleases Thee, that alone is good. Slave Nanak has sought Thine shelter.
Slok 5th Guru.
He who has Him as his Lord is left with no hunger.
Nanak, everyone who falls at his feet is saved.
5th Guru.
Nanak if the beggar daily begs for the Name the Lord grants his request.
The Lord is my alms-giver, O Nanak and He has absolutely no want.
Pauri.
To be imbued with the Lord is man's true viand and wear.
The embracing of love for God's Name is to possess elephants and horses.
To unswervingly remember God is to possess kingdom, property and abundant amusements.
The minstrel is to beg the Lord's door which he is never going to leave.
Within Nanak's mind and body is this eagerness: that he, ever, longs for the Lord.
Gauri Measure The hymns of the Saints.
There is but one God. True is His Name and creative His personality. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Gauri Grareri Reverend Kabir's Chaupade.
While on fire, I have, now, found the water of the Lord's Name.
The water of the Lord's Name has cooled my burning body. Pause
To subjugate their mind, men go to forests.
That water (to quench the fire) is not found without the Fortunate Lord.
The fire, which has consumed gods and men,
the water of Lord's Name has saved His burning slave from that.
In the terrible ocean there is an ocean of peace.
I continue to drink, the water exhausts not.
Says Kabir, remember the Lord as does a sparrow-hawk remember the water.
Lord's Name is the water which has quenched my thirst.
Gauri Venerable Kabir
O the Lord of wealth, my thirst for the water of Thy Name departs not.
In (for) that water, my ardour is rather raging more. Pause.
Thou art an ocean of water and I a fish of water.
I dwell in water and without water I perish.
Thou art the cage and I am Thine parrot.
What can the cat of death do unto me?
Thou art the tree and I am a bird.
Unlucky as I am I see thee not.
Thou art the True Guru and I a new disciple of Thine.
Says Kabir, meet me, O Lord at the last movement of mine.
Gauri Reverend Kabir.
When I realise that there is but one Lord,
why then, should people feel distressed at it?
I am dishonoured, I have lost my honour.
Let no one follow in my foot steps. Pause.
I am bad, and bad in mind as well.
I have no partnership with anyone.
About honour and dishonour, I feel no shame,
but you shall know then, when your gilding shall be laid bare.
Says Kabir, that is honour, which is acceptable to God.
Forsake all else and meditate on the Omnipresent Lord alone.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
If union with God be obtained by going about naked,
then all the deer of forest would be emancipated.
What matters is weather man goes naked or wears a (deer) skin,
when he remembers not the Pervading Lord in his mind. Pause.
If perfection be obtained by shaving the head,
then for the sheep salvation is not gone anywhere.
O brother, if one be saved by celibacy,
why should not an eunuch obtain the supreme dignity.
Says Kabir, hear O men, my brethren,
without the Lord's Name, who has ever obtained salvation?
Gauri Kabir Ji.
They who take bath in the evening and the morning,
are like frogs in the water.
When men have no love for the Lord's Name,
they shall all go to the Righteous Judge, to account for their deeds. Pause.
They who are in love with their bodies, and assume many forms,
feel not compassion even in their dream.
So many wise-men say that such persons are the four-footed animals,
but the saints obtain peace in this ocean of strife.
Says Kabir, why should we perform so many ceremonies?
Forsake all others and quaff only the supreme Name Nectar.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
What avails meditation, what penance and what fasting and worship to Him,
in whose heart there is the love of another?
O man, apply thy mind to the Lord of wealth.
Through cleverness, the four armed Lord God is not obtained. Pause.
Forsake covetousness and worldly ways.
Lay aside lust, wrath and pride.
With the practise of rituals one is bound down by ego.
They join together and worship a stone.
Says Kabir, by devotion the Lord is obtained.
Through simplicity, the king of Raghwas, God is met
Gauri Kabir Ji.
In the womb dwelling, the mortal has no lineage and caste.
From the seed of the Lord, all have sprung.
Say O Pandit, since when hast thou been a Brahman?
Waste not thy life by repeatedly calling thyself Brahman. Pause.
If thou art a Brahman, born of a Brahman Mother,
then, why hast thou not come by some other way?
How art thou a Brahman, and how am I of low caste?
How am I of blood and how thou art of milk?
Says Kabir, only he who contemplates over the Lord,
is said to be a Brahman, among us.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
In spiritual ignorance, one can never sleep in peace.
The king and the pauper both weep alike.
Till the time man's tongue repeats not Lord's Name,
he continues coming, going and bemoaning. Pause.
The wealth, which appears to be like the shadow of a tree,
tell! who shall it belong when the life departs?
As is the tune contained in the instrument so is the life in the body,
therefore how can anyone know the secret of the dead.
As the swan moves about the lake, so does death hover over man's body.
Lord's elixir, quaff thou, O Kabir.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
Of the luminous Lord is the creation. Because of mind's intent the world fruitions.
That mind's bear fruits like the true pearl and the false glass.
Which is that house that is said to be without fear?
Where fear is dispelled and one abides fearlessly. Pause.
At the banks of sacred waters the soul is not propitiated.
In meritorious deeds and evil acts, the mortals remain entangled.
The demerits and merits are both the same.
In thy own home is God, the Transmuting stone. Shed seeking virtues form any other.
Kabir O virtueless man fall not out with the Lord's Name.
Keep this mind of thine recreated in this recreation.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
The man who knows not the Inestimable and Incomprehensible Lord,
wishes to enter heaven by mere words.
I know not where Lord's abode is.
Everyone says he wishes to go and reach there. Pause.
By mere talk man's mind is sated not then alone,
the mind is appeased, when pride is stilled.
As long as there is desire for paradise in man's mind,
so long he abides not at the Lord's feet.
Says Kabir, to whom should I tell this,
that in the society of saints is the Master's Mansion.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
The mortal is born he grows up and having grown up he dies.
Before our very eyes this world is seen passing away.
Thou diest not of shame while calling the home to be thine.
At the last moment nothing is thine. Pause.
With various efforts the body is cherished,
but at the time of death it is burnt with fire.
The body to whose limbs thou appliest the otto of sandal,
is burned with wood.
Says Kabir hear me, O virtuous men.
Thy beauty shall perish and the whole world will witness.
Gauri Reverend Kabir.
Why mourns thou when another dies?
Do so, if thou art to live thyself.
I shall not die as the world does die,
as I have, now, met the Re-animator Lord. Pause.
The mortal perfumes this body with sandal,
and in that pleasure he forgets the supreme bliss.
There is one well and the five water-carriers.
Even with the broken rope the silly ones continue drawing water.
Says Kabir, through deliberation, I have gained an understanding.
For me there is no more the well, nor that water-carrier.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
Immobile and mobile creatures, insects and moths,
all those I have passed through many forms of various births.
I had occupied many such homes,
like I was cast into my mother's womb. Pause.
I become a Yogi, a continent, a penitent and an ascetic.
Sometimes I became a King, the Lord of throne and sometimes a beggar.
The mammon worshipper shall die, but the saints shall all live,
and quaff the Lord's elixir with their tongues.
Says Kabir, my Master, have mercy on me.
I have grown weary. Grant me perfection, now.
Gauri Kabir Ji, together with the 5th Guru.
Kabir has seen such wonders.
Mistaking if for curd, man is churning water. Pause.
The donkey grazes the green plumules,
and rising daily laughs, brays and finally dies.
The intoxicated he-buffalo and ultimately falls into hell.
It gambols, skips, eats and ultimately falls into hell.
Says Kabir, a strange sport has become manifest,
the sheep ever sucks the milk of her lamb.
Repeating Lord's Name my intellect is illumined.
Says Kabir, the Guru has imparted understanding to me.
Gauri Kabir Ji. Panchpade.
I am like the fish, which leaving water goes out of it,
because in the former life I performed not toilsome service.
Say now, O Lord, what shall be my condition?
People tell me, that I was left with little sense, when I left Banaras. Pause.
All my life I wasted in the city of Shiva.
At the time of death I have shifted to Magahar.
For many years I did penance at Kashi (Banaras).
Now when it came to dying, I have come to dwell at Magahar.
Banaras and Magahar I consider alike.
How can one, with scanty devotion swim across.
Says Kabir my Guru, Ganesh, Shiva and all know,
that Kabir died uttering Lord's holy Name.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
The body, to whose limbs the otto of sandal is applied,
is ultimately burned with the fire-wood.
What is there to be proud of in this body and wealth?
They remain lying on earth and go not with the mortal to the world-beyond. Pause.
They, who sleep by night and work by day,
and repeat not God's Name even for an instant,
who hold kite string in their hand and chew betel with their mouth,
are at the time of death firmly bound as thieves.
If under Guru's instruction and immersed in love, thou sing the God's praise,
and remember the All-pervading Lord, thou shalt obtain. Peace.
He, within whom the Lord mercifully establishes His Name,
imbibes God Master's odour and frangrace in his heart.
Says Kabir, remember thou thy Lord, O blind man.
True is the Lord and false are all the worldly affairs.
Gauri Kabir Ji. Tipadas of heading toward death.
I have, now, turned towards the Lord.
Anguish is annulled and I abide in peace.
Mine enemies have turned into friends.
The apostates have changed into hearty good folk.
I now, deem, everything to be peace-bestowing.
Since I have realised the world preserver, calmness and composure have come to me. Pause.
There were millions if ills in the body.
They have turned into peace and calm concentration.
When man himself understands his ownself,
he suffers not from illness and the three fevers.
My mind has, now, reverted to its original purity.
When I became dead in life, then alone I came to know the Lord.
Says Kabir, I have now merged into celestial bliss.
I myself fear none, nor do I inspire fear in anyone else.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
when the body dies, to what abode does the soul of the pious person go?
It is absorbed in the Uncontaminated and Imperishable Lord.
He, who knows the Lord, realises His relish.
His soul is sated like that of the dumb eating sugar.
Such is the Divine Knowledge that the Lord's expounds.
O man hold they breath in the central trachea. Pause.
Appoint such a Guru, that thou mayest not have to appoint another again.
Utter such word that thou mayest not have to utter another again.
Embrace such meditation that thou mayest not have to embrace another again.
Die thou in such a way, that thou mayest not have to die again.
Turn thy breaths from the left and right and unite them in the central trachea.
Within thy mind and at their confluence bathe thou without water.
To look on all with the same eye this should be thy daily dealing.
Reflect upon the reality, what else is there to reflect upon.
Water, fire, wind, earth and the sky.
Adopt such way of life as theirs and thou shalt be near God.
Contemplate thou on the Pure Lord, says Kabir.
Arrive at that home, whence there be no returning any more.
Gauri Kabir Ji Tipadas.
The Lord cannot be obtained by giving in alms gold equal to one's weight.
by giving my soul, I have purchased the Master.
Now I recognise the Lord, as my own.
My mind is naturally pleased with Him. Pause.
By continually dilating upon Him, Brahma has not found God's limit.
But by virtue of devotional service, the Lord has come and sat in my home.
Says, Kabir, I have given up my wavering disposition.
Lord's service alone, has fallen to my own lot.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
The death, which has terrified the whole world,
the reality of that death is revealed unto me by the Guru's teaching.
Now, how shall I Die? My mind has accepted death.
They alone, who not the pervading God, continually die and depart. Pause.
Everyone says "I am to die, I am to die".
He alone becomes immortal who dies in Divine comprehension.
Says Kabir, Within my mind, happiness has emanated,
my doubt is dispelled and Supreme bliss abides in it.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
There is no special place, where the soul aches. Where should I apply the medicine.
I have searched my body, but have found no such place.
He, who feels this pain, knows it,
pointed are the arrows of the devotional service of the Lord. Pause.
I treat all the women (persons) alike,
what do I know, who is dear to the Bridegroom (God).
Says Kabir, forsaking all, the Husband (Lord) meets her,
on whose forehead such destiny is recorded.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
He who has such a Master as God, O brother!
countless salvations knock at his door.
Say now that my trust is in Thee, O Lord,
then what obligation am I under to anyone else? Pause.
The Lord, who bears the burden of three worlds,
why should not He cherish me?
Says Kabir, I have obtained one piece of knowledge by reflection,
if the mother poisons her own child, what can we do them?
Gauri Kabir Ji.
Without chastity, how can the women be faithful to her husband,
O Pandit, see and reflect over this in thy mind.
If the bride has no love for her husband, how can husband's love for her increase?
As long as there is worldly attachment, so long there cannot be Divine love. Pause.
He, who in his mind deems mammon as true,
meets not the Pervading Lord, even in his dream.
One who surrenders her body, soul, wealth, home and self to her Master,
Kabir calls her the true bride.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
the whole is engrossed in deadly sins.
The sins have drowned families upon families.
O man, where hast thou wrecked and sunk thy boat?
Having broken with God, thou has joined hands with the sins. Pause.
The fire is raging and the demigods and men are burning therein.
The water of Lord's Name is near. By removing, the beast drinks it not.
Through continuous meditation the water of Lord's Name issues forth.
Immaculate is that water, says Kabir.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
The family whose son has no Divine knowledge and who reflects not on the Lord,
why did not that mother (of the family) become a widow.
He, who has not performed Lord's service,
why did such a wicked man not die at his very birth? Pause.
Pregnancies are many times miscarried, why has he escaped?
The hideously looking person is leading ignoble life in this world.
Says Kabir, the beautifully shaped persons,
are the ugly hunchbacked ones, without God's Name.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
I am ever a sacrifice unto the men,
who recite the Master's Name.
He is pure, who sings the pure praise of God,
he is my brother and dear to my heart. Pause.
Whose hearts are filled with the Pervading God,
I am the dust of the lotus like feet of those.
I am a weaver by caste and patient by nature.
Slowly and steadily Kabir utters the Lord's excellences.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
The tenth gate, the home of beatitude, is my furnace, from which the wine is tricking down.
Making my body into fire-wood, I have amassed the supreme wine of Lord's Name.
He alone is called the real drunkard,
who drinks the wine of Lord's Name and reflects over Divine knowledge. Pause.
Now when the bar-woman of Divine knowledge has come and served me with the wine of Lord's Name,
my night and day are passing intoxicated with bliss.
When, by meditation I attached my mind with the pure One,
says Kabir then did I obtain the Fearless Lord.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
The mind's nature is to pursue the mind and to chasten it.
Who has become a perfect person, by killing his mind.
Who is that silent sage, who has killed his mind?
By killing the mind, say, whom else shall he get emancipated. Pause.
It is through the mind that everyone speaks.
Without killing the (evil of) mind, Lord's devotional service is not performed.
Says Kabir, he who understands this secret,
within his mind sees God, the Lord of three worlds.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
Those stars which are seen in the sky,
who is the painter, who has painted them?
Say, O Pandit, to what is the sky attached?
Very fortunate is the knower, who knows this. Pause.
The sun and the moon diffuse light.
In everything the Lord's extension is pervading.
Says Kabir, he alone shall know this,
in whose heart is the Lord and in whose mouth too, is the Lord.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
The Simriti is the daughter of the Vedas, O brother.
She has brought a chain and a rope for the men.
Of herself, she has imprisoned them in her own city.
She has spread the noose of worldly love and discarded the arrow of death. Pause.
By cutting she cannot be cut and is not broken, either.
Becoming a serpent, she is eating the world.
Who before my very eyes has plundered the whole world,
I have escaped from her by uttering the Lord's Name, Says Kabir.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
To inflict defeat on worldly love is putting the bridle to my mind's steed,
and the abandonment of everything is to course it towards heaven.
Self-reflection I have make my ride.
In the stirrup of Divine knowledge I have placed my foot. Pause.
Come, O steed, let me drive thee to the Lord's Mansion.
If thou jib, then, I will strike thee with the whip of Lord's love.
Says Kabir they are the good riders,
who remain aloof from the Vedas and the Muslim religious books.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
The mouth, which used to eat the five dainties,
I have seen the flame being applied to that mouth.
O sovereign Lord, remove my one misery,
of abiding in womb and being burned in fire. Pause.
The body is destroyed in various ways and manners.
Some burn it and some bury it in the earth.
Says Kabir, O God, show me Thine feet,
thou mayest send death afterwards.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
God Himself is the fire and Himself the wind.
When the Master wishes to burn then who can save?
What if even my body is burnt, when I am repeating the Lord's Name?
In the Master's Name, my mind remains absorbed. Pause.
Whose house burns and who suffers loss?
God plays like the juggler's ball.
Says Kabir, utter the two letters (composing the word Ram, meaning God).
If God be my Husband, then, He will protect me.
Gauri Kabir Ji. Dupde.
I have not applied my though or mind to the way of Yoga.
Without Lord's love I cannot escape from mammon.
How shall I pass my life,
when I have not the Lord's Name as my support? Pause.
Says Kabir, I have made search in the sky (universe),
and have not seen another equal to the Pervading God.
Gauri Kabir Ji.
The crow cleans his beak on the head,
the head on which the turban was, once very embellishingly bound.
What pride can be placed on this body and wealth?
Why do thou not hold fast Lord's Name? Pause.
Says Kabir, hear O my soul,
this shall be thy condition as well.
35 Paday of Gauri Guareri.
Gauri measure Guareri. Ashtpadi Kabir Ji.
There is but one God. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Man prays for peace, but pain be-falls him.
I like not to ask for that peace.
Man's intent is bent on sin but still he hopes for happiness.
How shall he find an abode in the Sovereign Lord? Pause.
This worldly pleasure, ever Shiva and Brahma dread.
That pleasure I deem to be as true.
Sages like Sanak etc, Narad and the thousand headed serpent,
even they did not perceive the soul within the body.
Let some one inquire into the state of this soul, O brother.
Escaping from the body, where does the soul go?
By Guru's grace, Jaidev and Nama,
they came to know this secret through Lord's meditation and love.
This soul comes and goes not.
He whose doubt is dispelled, knows the Truth.
This soul has no form or outline.
By Lord's order it was created and by understanding His order it will be absorbed in Him.
Does anyone know the secret of this soul?
This soul is ultimately, absorbed in God, the Comfort-giver.
There is one Soul and it pervades all the bodies.
This Soul, Kabir is meditating upon.
Gauri Guareri.
Of those who day and night were awake to the Name alone,
many have become perfect persons, by enshrining affection for the Lord. Pause.
The strivers, the men of miracles and the silent sages have all lost the game.
The one name, like the elysian tree, saves the mortals.
They who are reverdured by God, become not of any other.
Says Kabir, they recognise the Lord's Name alone.
Gauri and Sorath both.
O shameless fellow, do thou feel not shame?
Forsaking God, whither and to whom goest thou? Pause.
Whose Master is the most high,
for that man, It seems not graceful to go to another's house.
That Lord is fully pervading everywhere.
God is ever with us, and is never distant.
At whose feet the goodness of wealth takes refuge,
Say, O man, what is there not in His Mansion?
He, of whom everyone speaks,
is Omnipotent, His own Master and the Bestower.
Says Kabir, that man alone is perfect in this world,
in whose mind none else but God abides.
Whose is the son? Whose is the father?
Who dies? who inflicts pain?
The Lord is the Enticer, who has enticed the world.
How shall I survive, my mother, in separation from God? Pause.
Of whom is the husband? of whom is the wife.
Reflect thou on this reality within thy body.
Says Kabir, with the Enticer, my mind is own propitiated.
The illusion has vanished and I have recognised the illusionist.
The Sovereign Lord has, now, become my helper.
Having, cut away coming and going, I have obtained the supreme rank. Pause.
He has united me with the saints congregation.
From the five demons, He has rescued me.
The Nectar Name, I continually repeat with my tongue.
The Lord has made me His slave without a price.
The True Guru has shown beneficence unto me.
He has rescued me from the world ocean.
With Lord's lotus feet I have conceived love.
The World-Lord, ever ever abides within my mind.
The burning coal of the fire of mammon has been quenched.
By Name's prop, my soul has attained contentment.
The Lord Master is fully pervading in Water and land.
Wherever I see, there is the Knower of hearts.
His meditation, He has Himself implanted within me.
The Lord meets, O my brother, by virtue of the primal writ.
Perfect becomes the condition of him, unto whom the master shows mercy.
Kabir's Lord is the Cherisher of the poor.
There is impurity in water, there is impurity in Land and there is impurity in Whatever is born.
There is impurity in birth, again there is impurity in death. The Lord's subjects are ruined by uncleanliness.
Says, O Pandit, who is pure?
Deliberate over such Knowledge, O my friend. Pause.
There is impurity in the eyes, there is impurity in speech. There is impurity in the ears.
Standing and sitting impurity attaches to the mortal impurity enters the Kitchen.
Everyone knows the way to be caught in impurity, but rarely anyone knows how to escape.
Says Kabir, no impurity attaches to those, who meditate on the Lord in their mind.
Gauri.
Resolve one controversy, O Lord,
if thou desirest any service from me, thy slave. Pause.
Is this soul greater, or He to whom this soul is attuned?
Is the Lord greater, or He who knows the Lord.
Is Brahma greater, or he who created him?
Is Veda greater, or the place from where it came?
Says Kabir, I have become sad at this,
is the place of pilgrimage greater or the God's servant.
Measure Gauri Cheti.
See brethren, the storm of Divine Knowledge has come.
It is wholly blown away the thatched hut of doubt and even the bonds of mammon have not been left. Pause.
The two props of double-mindedness have been of worldly love has been broken.
The thatched roof of greed has fallen to the ground and the pot of bad intellect has burst.
Thy servant is saturated with the rain that has fallen after the storm.
Says Kabir, my mind is illumined, when I see the Sun rise.
Gauri Cheti.
There is but one God. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
They, who neither hear God's praise nor sing God's excellence,
but knock down the sky with their talk,
What should one say to such people?
They, whom the Lord has excluded from His devotional service, be thou always afraid of them. Pause.
Themselves they give not even a handful of water,
but slander him who brought down the Ganges.
Sitting or standing, crooked are their ways.
They themselves are ruined and they ruin others.
Save evil talk, they know nothing else.
The obey not even Brahma's bidding.
They themselves are gone amiss and they mislead others.
Setting their mansion on fire, they sleep therein.
They laugh at others though they themselves are one eyed.
On beholding them, Kabir is ashamed.
Measure Gauri Bairagan Kabir Ji.
There is but one God. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
One serves not his ancestors when they are alive, but he gives them feasts when they are dead.
Say, how shall the poor parents obtain what the crows and dogs have eaten up?
Let some one tell me what the "real joy" is.
Talking of real satisfaction, the world is dying, How can spiritual appeasement be obtained? Pause.
Making goddesses and gods of clay, the mortals offer them living creatures.
Such are said to be your deceased parents, who cannot ask for what they want to have.
You behead living being and worship lifeless things. At the last moment, great shall be your suffering.
You know not the worth of Lord's Name, you shall be drowned in the terrible world--ocean.
You adore goddesses and gods, waver in your faith and know not the supreme Lord.
Says, Kabir, you have not remembered the ancestorless Lord and are clinging to the deadly sins.
Gauri.
Man ought to remain dead in life, and being so dead should revive, again, through the Name. Like this he is absorbed in the formless Lord.
By remaining pure amid impurity, he falls not again, into the terrible world-ocean.
My Master such milk should be churned.
Under Guru's instructions, keep thy mind steadfast. In this way shalt thou drink the Name Nectar. Pause.
The Guru's arrow has pierced the Dark-age and the state of illumination has dawned upon me.
Due to the darkness of mammon my mistaking the rope for a snake, is ended and I now abide in the Lord's eternal mansion.
The mammon has stretched the bow without an arrow, and has pierced this world, O my brethren.
In ten directions, the drowned mortal moves about in the wind, but I keep myself attached to the string of Lord's love.
The perturbed mind is absorbed in the Lord, and duality and evil intellect have fled.
Says Kabir, by imbibing affection for Lord's Name I have seen the fearless Unique God.
Gauri Bairagan Tipade.
By turning my thought towards God, I have pierced the six body rings and my mind got enamoured of the Lord.
O World-renouncer search Him, who comes and goes not, and who neither dies nor is born.
Turing away from the world, my soul is merged into the Supreme soul.
By Guru's grace, my understanding has become different otherwise I was quite ignorant. Pause.
What was near has become distant, and again, what was distant has become near for him who realises the Lord as He is.
As is the sugary water made from sugar candy, only he who drinks it knows its relish.
To whom shall I narrate Thy discourse, O Lord, which is beyond three qualities? Is there any such discriminating person.
As is the fuse of spiritual understanding that one applies so is the Diving flash, which he sees.
Gauri.
There with the Lord is no rainy season, ocean, sun shine and shade. There is no creation or destruction.
No life, no death, no sorrow or joy is felt there.
There is only profound trance and no duality. The discourse of Sahaj-state is peerless and ineffable.
Neither it is weighed nor is it exhausted it is neither light nor heavy. Pause.
Both the nether region and upper one are not there. Night and day too are not there.
Again there is no water, wind and fire. The True Guru is there contained.
The inaccessible and inapprehensible one abides there within Himself.
By Guru's grace He is obtained. Says Kabir, I am a sacrifice unto my Guru and I remain attached with the congregation of saints.
Gauri.
With both merits and demerits the body ox is bought and life appears as the capital.
In this way the herd has been purchased. the heart bag on the ox's back is filled from within with desires.
Such wealthy Banker is my Lord.
The whole world, He has made His pedlar. Pause.
Lust and wrath are both the tax-gatherers and the waves of the mind are the highway robbers.
The five mortal sins meet and distribute the loot. Like this the herd ferries across (passes away).
Says Kabir, hear O saints such has become the state of affairs now.
Going uphill, am ox has grown weary and dropping his sack, he has proceeded on his journey.
Gauri Panchpade.
A Woman has four days in her Father's house, she must go to her Father-in-law's.
The blind, stupid and childish folk, understand not this.
Say, why is the bride so heedlessly standing and trying her loin-cloth?
The guests have reached the home and her Husband has arrived to take her away. Pause.
Who is letting down the rope, in the will which we see?
The rope breaks away from the water-pot, and the water-drawer gets up and departs.
If the Lord be kind and shows His mercy, the woman shall set aright her affairs.
Then alone she is considered to be the happy wife, if she ponders on the Guru's teaching.
Bound by the deeds done everyone wanders about, you should see and consider this.
What shall we say to her? What can the poor one do?
Becoming hopeless, she gets up and departs. There is no prop and satisfaction in her mind.
Remain attached to God's feet and flee to His asylum, O Kabir.
Gauri.
Yogi says that yoga and nothing else is good and sweet, O brother.
The shaven ones, of amputated limb and the one word utterers, they say that they have obtained perfection.
Without God, the blind ones are gone astray in doubt.
They, to whom I go to release myself, are themselves bound by many chains. Pause
The soul is absorbed in Him, form where it issued when man forgets this sort of pride.
The learned, the virtuous, the brave the generous, they assert that they alone are great.
He alone understands God, whom He causes to understand Him. How can one do without understanding Him.
By meeting the True Guru. the darkness is dispelled. In this way, Lord the gem is obtained.
Give up sins of thy left hand and the right and take the firm hold of God's feet.
Says Kabir, the dumb man has eaten molasses, but what can he tell if questioned?
Measure Gauri Purbi Kabir Ji.
There is but one God. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Where there was something there is nothing now. The five elements are no more, there.
The left nostril, the right one and the central tracheas, how can these, now be counted, O mortal?
The string is broken and the brain is destroyed. Wither has the speech gone?
Night, and day this anxiety haunts me. None can explain and make me understand this. Pause.
The body is not there where this world, is Its prompter (mind too) is not there.
The Joiner is ever unattached. Within whom can this soul, now be said to be contained?
By trying to unite the elements man cannot unite them. By trying to separate them, he cannot separate them, until the body perishes.
Of whom the soul is the Lord and of whom the servant? Where and to whom can it go?
Says Kabir, my love is centred on the place, where the Lord, day and night abides.
His secret He Himself fully knows. He is ever Imperishable.
Gauri.
Meditation and contemplation of God, are my two ear rings and the true knowledge is my outward patched coat.
Contemplative posture is my dwelling in the silent cave and the abandonment of desire is my religious sect.
My king, I am a yogi imbued with Lord's Love.
I am above death, sorrow and separation. Pause.
In the universe and regions, I find my horn and the whole world is my wallet to keep the ashes.
Riddance of three qualities and release from the world is my sitting in trance.
My mind and breath, I have made the two gourds of my fiddle and the Lord of all the ages I have make its frame.
Stable has become the string and breaks not, and the fiddle plays spontaneously.
By hearing it, the mind of the perfect man is enraptured and feels not the swaying of mammon.
Says Kabir the desireless soul, which has played such a game is not born again.
Gauri.
Weave this into a full piece of nine yards, ten yards and twenty one yards.
To the warp of sixty threads and the woof of seventy-two, add another nine joints.
Said the soul who had gone to have the yarn woven.
Leaving her former home, the soul goes into weaver's woven one. Pause.
The body is not measured with yards or weighed with weights. Its food is two and a half seers.
If the body obtain not food quickly, the soul quarrels and the body home is destroyed.
O thou, averse to the Lord, soul, how many days are there for thee to sit here? When shalt thou have this opportunity again?
Leaving the pot and the wet bobbins the weaver soul departs in anger.
The breath thread comes not out of the empty wind-pipe. Getting entangled the breath thread is exhausted.
O wretched soul, while living here renounce thou the world. Kabir says this to make you understand this.
Gauri.
One light merges into another light, can it be or be not separated again?
May that man, burst and die in whose mind God's name sprouts not.
O my dark and beauteous Lord,
my mind is attached with Thee. Pause.
By meeting the saints perfection is obtained of what use if this Yoga-method and of what the revelments?
When two, the Guru and the disciple meet, the business is accomplished and the tie with Lord's Name is established.
People deem it to be a song but it is mediation on the Lord.
It is like the instruction imparted to the man at the time of death at Banaras.
Who-so-ever attentively sings or hears Lord's name,
says Kabir, doubtlessly he obtains the highest dignity at last.
Gauri.
All those, who make efforts without God's Name, they are drowned and swim not across the terrible ocean.
Those who practise religious rituals and great self-discipline, the proud intellect consumes their soul.
Why hast thou, O man, forgotten in thy mind, the Lord, who has given thee life and food?
The human birth is a priceless ruby and gem. For a worthless shell thou hast lost it. Pause.
Thou sufferest from the thirst of desire and the hunger of doubt, as thou reflectest not on God in thy mind.
The intoxication of self-adoration defrauds thou who keep not Guru's instruction in their mind.
Sinful are they who are led away by worldly pleasures, who are tempted by sexual delights and who enjoy relish of wine.
They, who through good luck and destiny meet the society of saints, float over like iron attached to wood.
Through error I have wandered among births of various existences and grown with-travail.
Says Kabir, on meeting the Guru, I have obtain supreme joy, and my love and devotion have saved me.
Gauri.
Like the semblance of a she-elephant, O silly soul, the Lord of the universe has made this world-play.
Impelled by the relish of lust the elephant is captured, O my silly soul, and his head has to endure the goad.
Escape from sin, get immersed in God and heed this advice, O my silly soul.
Thou hast nor fearlessly meditated on God and hast not embarked on the Lord's ship, O my silly soul. Pause.
Stretching out its hand, O my silly soul, the monkey takes a handful of corn.
Infested with the anxiety to escape, O my silly soul, it is make to dance at the door of every house.
As the parrot is caught by means of a trap, O my silly soul, so is the man entrapped by the worldly occupations.
As is the fleeting dye of saf-flower O my silly soul, so is the expanse of the world.
O my mad soul, there are good many holy places to bathe in, and many deities to worship.
Says Kabir, thou shalt not be saved like this, O my silly soul; thou shalt be released by God's service.
Gauri.
Fire burns it not, nor does wind carry it away. The thief draws not near it.
Amass such wealth of the Lord's Name. That wealth goes not any where.
My wealth is God, the Lord of wealth, the Master of the Universe and the support of the earth. This is called the real wealth.
The peace obtained in the service of the Lord Master, that peace is not found in dominions. Pause.
Shiva and Sanak and the like in their search, for this wealth became the world forsakers.
He, in whose heart is the Granter of salvation, and on whose tongue is the Omnipresent Lord, falls not into Death's noose.
The Guru given Lord's service and Divine Knowledge is my personal wealth. With that good instruction my mind is attached.
The Lord's Name is water for the burning soul and a pillar for the fleeting mind. The fears and entanglements of doubt depart therewith.
Says Kabir, "O ye lust -intoxicated man, reflect on this in thy mind and see".
In thy home are lacs and millions of horses and elephants. In my house is the One Lord, the slayer of Mur, demon.
Gauri.
As a monkey, through greed does not. let go handful of grams in its hand,
and is thereby entrapped, so do all the deeds done by man through greed they ultimately become a halter round his neck.
Without the devotional service of God, human life passes in vain.
Without the association of the righteous, and the meditation of the Fortunate, Lord Truth nowhere abides. Pause.
As flower in the wilderness blooms and no one enjoys its fragrance,
similarly man wanders in many births, and death destroys him again and again.
This wealth, youth, sons and wife, that the Lord has given, are but a passing show.
They who are arrested and entangled in them, are prompted and misled by senses.
Age is fire, the body is the house of straw, on all the four sides this from is made.
Says Kabir, to cross over the terrible world-ocean, I have taken the shelter of the True Guru.
Gauri.
The watery sperm is dirty and the ovarian secretion is crimson.
From this clay the puppet is made.
I am nothing and nothing is mine.
My body, riches and all the delicacies are Thine, O world-sustainer. Pause.
In this clay (body), breath is infused.
Through Thine might, Thou hast set going the false contrivance.
Some amass five lacs of rupees.
But at last the pitcher (body) bursts.
Says Kabir the sole foundation, which thou has laid,
shall be destroyed in a moment, O proud man.
Gauri.
O my soul, remember the Lord like,
Dhru and Prahlad meditated on God.
O Merciful to the poor, placing reliance on Thee,
I have embarked all my family on Thine boat. Pause.
When it pleases Him, then He has His order obeyed,
and He causes this boat to cross over.
By Guru's grace such understanding is enshrined within me,
that my coming and going, over again, have ceased.
Says Kabir meditate Thou on God, the earth sustainer.
In this world the world beyond and everywhere He alone is the Donor.
Gauri 9.
Leaving the womb, when the mortal comes into the world,
as soon as the air touches him, he forgets his Master.
O my soul, sing thou the praises of God. Pause.
When thou didst penance reversed in the womb existence,
thou then, escaped the fire of the belly.
Having wandered through eighty four lacs of existences, thou hast come.
If thou stumble, now thou shalt find no place or home.
Says Kabir, remember thou thy Lord,
who is not seen coming or going and who knows all the things.
Gauri Purbi.
Long not for an abode in paradise and fear not to dwell in hell.
What is to be, shall definitely happen so build no hope in thy mind.
Chant thou the praises of the Pervading Lord,
from whom the most excellent treasure is obtained. Pause.
Of What avail is recitation, what penance and self-mortification, what fasting and what ablution,
unless thou know the way to love and serve the Auspicious Master?
Feel not elated at the sight of treasures and weep not at the sigh of adversity.
As is wealth, so is poverty, and what the Lord proposes, that is accomplished.
Says Kabir, through the saints, I have now come to know within my mind,
that the servant, within whose mind the Lord abides, performs the best service.
Gauri.
My soul, no one, whose burden thou carriest, belongs to thee.
As is the perch of the bird on a tree, so is this world.
Lord's elixir I have quaffed,
by which Nectar, I have forgotten other relishes. Pause.
Since we ourselves are not permanent, why should we weep on others' death.
Whoever is born he shall die. Because of this grief let my evil spirit weep.
When man is attached to the pious persons and drinks the Name Nectar, his soul is absorbed in Him from whom it had sprung.
Says Kabir, I, my mind, have though of the pervading God and remember Him with love.
Measure Gauri.
The bride beholds the pathway singing and with tearful eyes.
Her mind is not happy, and she retracts not her steps, in the hope of seeing her Lord.
Fly away O black crow,
so that I my quickly meet my Beloved Lord. Pause.
Says Kabir perform Lord's devotional service to obtain the status of eternal Life.
The pervading God's Name is the only prop of mine, and with my tongue I repeat the Lord's Name.
Measure Gauri.
All round there are thick sweet basil shrubs. In the midst of them is made a good village.
Seeing His beauty, the milk-maid became enamoured. "Leave me not and come and go not, anywhere".
My soul is attached to Thy Feet, O Holder of the bow.
He alone meets Thee, who is very fortunate. Pause.
Soul-stirring is Bindraban, where the fascinating Lord grazes the kine.
My name is Kabir whose Master, O holder of the bow, Thou art.
Gauri Purbi.
Good many wear various robes. What avails it to have an abode in the forest?
What avails it to man to burn in sense before gods? What is it to dip ones body in water?
O Soul! I know that thou shalt depart.
O silly man, understand the Imperishable Lord.
Whatever the mortal beholds now, he shall not see that again, but still he is clung with mammon. Pause.
The divine, the men of contemplation and the great preachers, all are engrossed in these worldly affairs.
Says Kabir, without the Name of one Lord, this world is blinded by mammon.
Gauri.
O Man, victim of this mammon, abandon doubt and dance in open.
What a hero is he, who dreads the face to face engagement, and what king of faithful wife is she, who when call comes, starts assembling utensils?
Cease wavering O crazy man.
Now when thou hast taken red lead in thy hand, burn and die to obtain perfection. Pause.
The world is engrossed in lust wrath and wealth. In this way it is ruined.
Says Kabir, forsake thou not the sovereign Lord, who is the highest of all the high.
Gauri.
Thy command is upon my head, and again, I think not of its propriety.
Thou art the river and Thou art the boatman. From Thee is my salvation.
O man, embrace Lord's meditation.
Whether Thy Lord be angry with thee or loves thee. Pause.
As the flower blooms in water, so is Thy Name my mainstay.
Says Kabir, I am the slave of Thy home. Preserve me or slay me.
Gauri.
Wandering through eighty-four lakhs of animate existences Krishans adoptive father, Nand, was greatly worn-out.
Because of his devotion Krishan became incarnate in his house. Great was the good fortune of the poor man.
You say that Krishan was Nand's son, whose son was that Nand himself?
When there were no earth, firmament and ten directions, where was this Nand then? Pause.
He whose Name is the Immaculate Lord falls not in trouble and undergoes not birth.
Kabir's Master is such a Lord, who has neither mother, nor father.
Gauri.
Slander, slander me, ye people slander.
Slander is very sweet to God's servant.
Slander is my father and slander my mother. Pause.
If I am calumniated I go to God's Home,
and Name's wealth abides in my mind.
If I am slandered when my mind is pure,
the slanderer washes my clothes.
He who calumniates me, is my friend,
with the slanderer my mind is pleased.
He is the slanderer, who prevents my being slandered.
The calumniator wished me long life.
I bear love and affection to him who slanders me.
Slander effects my salvation.
To the slave Kabir, calumniation is the best thing.
The slanderer is drowned and I am ferried across.
My Sovereign Lord Thou art very fearless. Thou art a raft to swim across, O God, the monarch. Pause.
When I was proud Thou wert not in me. Now when Thou art in mine, I am not proud.
Now Thou and I have became one. My mind is appeased on beholding that we both are one and the same.
When there is worldly wisdom how can there be spiritual strength? Now (when I have spiritual wisdom), the temporal strength cannot abide.
Says Kabir, God has taken away my worldly wisdom and I have obtained perfection instead.
Gauri.
The Creator make the body chamber of six rings and in it put a peerless thing.
Like lock and key, the life is make the watchmen thereof. In doing so, the Maker makes no delay.
O brother, let thy soul remain awake now.
Becoming unmindful thou hast wasted away thy life. Thy home is being robbed by thieves. Pause.
The five senses stand as sentinels at the gate but no reliance can be placed on them.
Thou shalt have light and illumination, until thou art awake in thy conscious mind.
The bride who goes amiss by seeing the body of nine apertures, obtains not the peerless thing of God's Name.
Says Kabir, save the real thing, which is contained in the tenth gate, the thieves plunder the body on nine apertures.
Gauri.
O Mother, I know none else beside the Lord.
My soul abides in Him, whose praises Shiva, Sanak and others sing. Pause.
On meeting the Guru, the light of Divine knowledge has entered my mind, and my attention is fixed up in the tenth gate.
The disease of sin, fear and worldly entanglements have fled, and my soul has realised peace in its own home.
Imbued with good intellect, I know and obey the One Lord and allow not another to enter my mind.
Having abandoned the mental pride my soul is perfumed with the fragrance of sandal.
The man, who sings and meditates on the excellences of the Lord, within him is the abode of the master.
He, in whose heart, the Lord dwells, has very good fortune. The most distinguished is the destiny (recorded) on his forehead.
I have destroyed mammon. Lord's knowledge is kindled in my mind and I have become absorbed in the One Master.
Says Kabir, on meeting the Guru, I have obtained supreme bliss. My mind has ceased to wander and is rendered happy.
Measure Gauri Purbi. An Acrostic Of Kabir ji.
There is but one God. True is His Name and Creative His personality. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Through these fifty-two letters, the three worlds and all else are described.
These letters shall perish. That Imperishable Lord's cannot be described through these letters.
Where there is speech, there are letters (words).
Where there is no speech, there the mind remains not stable.
Both in speech and silence, He, the Lord abides.
As He is, none can know Him as such.
If I obtain the Adorable Lord, what shall I say then? By uttering His praise, what good I do to others?
He whose expanse is in the three worlds, is contained in the seed of Banyan tree.
He who knows the Lord and understand His secret, even a little, for him separation disappears.
When mortal turns away from the world, his mind is pierced through with the Lord's secret and he obtains the Indestructible and Impenetrable God.
A Muslim understands the Muslim way of life and a Hindu the Vedas and Puranas.
To instruct his mind, man ought to study Divine knowledge to some extent.
I know only the One Lord, who is the source of everything.
I believe not in him, whom the Lord writes (creates) and erases (destroys).
If someone sees the one Lord,
he perishes not by beholding Him.
K: When the rays of Divine Knowledge came into the heart lotus,
the moon shine of mammon, enters not the heart-can.
And if man obtains there the otto of the spiritual flower,
He would be unable to describe the indescribable relish there of By narration, whom can he make understand this?
Kh-- This soul has entered the Lord's cave.
Leaving the cave, it now, wanders not in ten directions.
When, knowing the Master, man practises forgiveness,
then he becomes immortal and attains the Imperishable dignity.
G - He who understand Guru's instruction,
lends not his ears to anything else.
He remains like a recluse and goes nowhere else,
who grasps the ungraspable Lord and so grasping Him abides in the tenth-gate.
Gh-He, the Lord, dwells in every heart.
When the body pitcher bursts, He never gets diminished.
When in that heart, man finds the way to the Lord,
abandoning that way, why should he follow a difficult path?
Ng - Restrain thyself bear love to thy Lord and dismiss thy doubts.
Thou see no way to thy Lord, flee not away, This is the highest wisdom.
Ch - The master has painted the great picture of the world.
Leave the painting and remember the painter.
This wonderous painting is now, the bone of contention.
Dismiss picture and keep thy mind on the Painter.
Chh--God, the Lord of umbrella, is here with thee.
Why and what for, dost thou not abandon desires and remain happy?
O mind, every moment do I instruct thee.
Forsaking Him, why dost thou entangle thyself.
J - if a man while alive burns his body,
and consigns to fire his youth, he finds the right way.
When the man abides, discarding his own wealth and the wealth of others,
then proceeding on, he obtains the bright light of the Lord.
Jh--Thou art entangled with the world and knowest not how to disentangle thyself.
Thou shrinkest back and art not acceptable to God.
Why talk nonsense to convince other?
By stirring up controversy, controversy thou shalt have.
Nj--The Lord abides near thee in thy heart. Why leave Him and go far to seek Him?
Him, for whom I have searched the whole world, I have found near me.
T-The difficult way to God is within man's mind.
Opening the shutters, why dost thou not repair to His presence?
Beholding the Immovable One, thou shalt not slip and go elsewhere.
Thou shalt remain clung to God and thy heart shall be glad.
Th--Keep thyself at distance from this mammon's mirage.
With great difficulty, I have rendered my mind patient.
The cheat, which had cheated and devoured the whole world,
I have cheated that cheat,. my mind is now at peace.
D - When Lord's fear is produced others fears depart.
In that fear, Other fears remain absorbed.
When man rejects Lord's fear, then others fears cling to him.
If he becomes fear-free, the fear of him mind flees away.
Dh--Why searchest thou Him elsewhere in other directions?
While searching for Him elsewhere the life ends.
When I returned, after ascending the mountain, in search for Him,
I found Him in the body castle, the castle which He Himself had make.
N--The Man engaged in strife, should practise perseverance.
He should neither quail, and again nor should he retreat.
Blessed is accounted the advent of him,
who conquers his one mind and eschews the many desires.
T - The unswimable world-ocean cannot be forded.
The human body is engrossed in the three worlds.
When the Lord of the three worlds enters into my body,
then my real-self blends with the Reality and obtains the True Lord.
Th--The Lord is Unfathomable. His depth cannot be explored.
He is limitless, This body remains not stable.
Over a small space man begins to erect a hamlet.
Without pillars, he wishes to support a mansion
Th--Whatever we see is perishable.
Think of Him who is unseen.
When the key of Divine Knowledge is applied to the tenth gate,
then is the sight of the Merciful Master beheld.
Dh - Everything is settled, if one from lower region soars to the higher One.
Lord's abode is in earth and heaven.
When leaving the earth, the soul goes to heaven then,
the soul and God meet and peace is obtained.
N - My nights and days pass looking for God.
By such waiting my eyes have grown blood-shout.
When, after long waiting, man finds God in his heart's abode,
then, He who beholds blends with Him who is looked for.
P - The Master is boundless and His bounds cannot be known.
I have contracted intimacy with the Supreme light.
He who controls his five senses,
is relieved of the idea of both evil and goodness.
Ph - Without the flower, the fruit is produced.
If anyone looks at the slice of that fruit,
and reflects on the slice, he suffers not transmigration.
That section of the fruit tears up all the bodies.
B - When the drop blends with drop,
then these drops separate not again.
Becoming Lord's slave, man ought to hold fast His meditation.
If one becomes the thinker of the Lord, He takes care of him like a relation.
Bh--By piercing (removing) doubt the union with God is achieved.
By shattering fear, I have, now, gained confidence.
Him, whom I thought without me, I have, now found within me.
When I found this secret, I recognised the World-Lord.
M--By clinging to the Root, the soul is propitiated.
The Knower of this secret understands his mind.
Let no mortal make delay in attaching his soul to God.
They who obtain the True Lord, get immersed in delight.
M--The mortal's business is with his mind. He who chastens his mind. He who chastens his mind attains perfection.
Says Kabir, I have dealings with my mind alone. I have met with nothing like the mind.
This mind is power. This mind is God.
This mind is the life of the five elements of the body.
Restraining his mind when man remains in the state of beatitude,
then can he tell the secrets of the three worlds.
Y - If Thou know anything, then, destroy thy evil-intellect and subdue thy body hamlet.
Being engaged in battle, if thou flee not away, thou shalt go by the Name of a hero.
R--The worldly pleasures I have deemed as unpalatable.
Becoming the spurner of relishes, I have realised that spiritual bliss.
By abandoning these temporal savours that spiritual bliss is attained.
By quaffing, that Nectar this worldly relish remain not pleasing.
L - Man ought to imbibe such love for God in his mind,
that he goes not to another and obtains the Supreme Truth.
And If, there in, he embraces love and affection for Him,
he attains the Lord and obtaining Him becomes absorbed in His Feet.
W - Over and over again think of thy Master.
By remembering God, defeat shall not come to thee.
I am devoted and a sacrifice unto those, who sing the praise of Lord's sons.
By meeting God, the entire truth is obtained.
W - Know Him, by knowing Him, this man becomes as He is.
When this soul and that Lord are blended, then after union none can distinguish them.
S--Discipline the mind perfectly well.
Retrain thyself from every talk, which allures the mind.
When love for God springs up, the mind is pleased,
and therein the king of three worlds remains fully pervading.
Kh - Any one who searches Him,
and he, who by searching finds Him, is not born again.
When man searches, knows and meditates upon the Lord,
then he crosses the frightful world-ocean without delay.
S - That maid, whose couch, He (the Spouse) adorns with His presence,
she stills her scepticism.
Renouncing the paltry pleasure, she procures the supreme delight.
Then she is called the bride and He, her Bridegroom.
H--God exits, but man knows not Him existence.
When he realises His existence, then is his mind propitiated.
For sure, the Lord exists, only if some one could understand Him.
In that case, He alone, will seem, and not this man.
I will take this, I will take that everyone goes about saying.
Because of that, man is infested with great sorrow.
When he comes to bear love with the Lord of wealth,
his sorrow departs and he attains all peace.
Kh - Many have pined and perished away.
Inspite of such wasting away and destruction man does not, even now, remember the Lord.
If anyone even now, understands the temporary nature of the world,
and restrains, his mind, he shall find a permanent place there from where he was separated.
Man has joined the fifty two letters.
But he cannot recognise the One word of God.
Kabir utters the word of truth.
He, who is a Brahman, remains without fear.
To join letters is the business of the literate person.
The divine person reflects upon the reality.
As is the intellect within one's mind,
Says Kabir, so does he understand.
There is but one God. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Measure Gauri Lunar days of Kabir Ji.
slok.
There are fifteen lunar days and seven week days.
Says Kabir, God has not this or that Limit.
The strivers and perfect persons when they know God's secret;
themselves they become the Creator and themselves the Lord.
Lunar day.
On the day of no moon, abandon thine desires.
Remember thou Lord, the Knower of hearts.
Thus shalt thou, in life, obtain the gate of salvation,
the name of the fearless Lord and the knowledge of thy own real-self.
He, who enshrines affection for the Lord's louts feet,
and by saints grace, become pure in mind, he, night and day remains awake in singing God's praises. Pause.
On the first day of the moon, meditate thou on the Beloved.
The Bodyless and Infinite Lord is sporting in the heart.
Pain of death never consumes him,
who remains absorbed in the primal Being.
Second lunar day Know that two beings are sprouting within the body limbs.
Mammon and God, are blended with everything.
The Lord neither increases nor decrease,
that Unkowable, Immaculate and Changeless.
The Third Lunar day--If man maintains equilibrium in the three modes,
he obtains the Root of joy and supreme status.
In the saints society faith arises in the mortal.
Ever without and within us is that Lord's light.
The fourth Lunar day - Restrain thy fickle mind,
and never associate with lust and wrath.
In sea and land, the Lord is all by Himself.
He Himself embraces His meditation.
The fifth Lunar day Thee world is the extension of the five elements.
The pursuit of gold and woman are its two occupations.
Rare is the person who drinks the Nectar of Lord's love.
He, suffers not, the pain of old age and death again.
The sixth Lunar day---The six ringed body runs in six directions.
Without the recreation of the Lord's Name it remained not steady.
Efface duality and hold fast to tolerance.
Endure thou not the torture of rituals and religious rites.
The seventh Lunar day - Know Gurbani as true,
and the pervading soul shall accept thee.
Thy doubt shall be stilled and trouble effaced,
thou shalt obtain the peace of the celestial ocean.
The eighth Lunar day--The body is made of the eight ingredients.
In that is the unknowable Lord, the King of the supreme treasure.
The Guru, who is versed in divine knowledge discloses this secret.
Turning away from the world, man abides in the unbreakable and impenetrable Lord.
The ninth Lunar day - Discipline thou thy nine gates.
Keep restrained thine flowing desires.
Forget all covetousness and worldly love,
and thou shalt eat the immortalising fruit and live through all the ages.
On the tenth Lunar day--Joy is prevailing in ten direction.
Doubt is dispelled and the World-Lord is met.
The Master is the embodiment of light, essence of all, and incomparable.
He is pure and filthless. There is no shade or sun-shine, where he abides.
On the eleventh Lunar day - if man runs in the one direction of God,
then he does not, again suffer the panges of existences.
Cool and stainless becomes his body.
God who is said to be far, Him he finds at quite close.
The twelfth Lunar day-- The twelve suns arise in the horizon.
Day and night the bugles play the celestial strain.
The mortal then sees the Father of the three worlds.
A wonder is wrought from man he has become God.
On the Thirteenth Lunar day - The holy books proclaim,
that recognise the Lord alike in nether word and the sky.
For Him there is no high or low. and no honourable or dishonourable.
The Omnipresent Lord is contained alike amongst all.
The fourteenth Lunar day - in the fourteen worlds
and every hair dwells God, the Enemy of pride.
Fix thy attention on truth and contentment.
Recite the dialogue of Lord's knowledge.
On the day of the full moon, the moon is full in the heavens.
With the might of its beams, the gentle light is diffused.
In the beginning end and the middle, the Lord is firmly fixed.
Kabir is absorbed in the ocean of bliss.
There is but one God. By the true Guru's grace. He is obtained.
Gauri Measure. Week days of Kabir Ji.
All the days of the week, sing God's praises.
By meeting the Guru, obtain thou the mystery of God. Pause.
On Sunday, begin Lord's devotional service,
and restrain the desires within the body palace.
When day and night man's attention remains fixed in the imperishable place,
then, the flute, in tranquility, plays heavenly music.
On Monday the Nectar trickles from the moon.
When tasted is, speedily removes all the poison.
Restrained with Gurbani, the mind remains within doors then,
drinks the Nectar and gets intoxicated.
On Tuesday have a peep into reality,
and know the way of assault of the five thieves.
Leaving thine home never wander abroad otherwise,
the King shall be exceedingly wrath.
On Wednesday man should enlighten his understanding.
So that the Lord my acquire dwelling on his heart lotus.
On meeting the Guru, he should consider both the weal and woe alike.
He ought to handle and set erect the inverted louts of his heart.
On Thursday, man should wash off his sins.
Forsaking the Trinity, he should attach himself to One God.
At the confluence of the three steams (of knowledge of the action and devotion),
why does he not wash away his sins day and night?
He successfully completes this fast of his, who on Friday practises tolerance,
and he who day and night combats with his own self (weaknesses).
Were mortal to restrain all his five senses then,
he shall never cast a glance on another.
On Saturday he who keeps stable,
the wick of God Light which is in his mind,
is illumined within and without,
and then all his evil actions are destroyed.
Know that as long as, in his mind, man seeks, another's patronage,
so long he obtains not Lord's presence.
When man embraces love for the Omnipresent Lord,
Says Kabir, then he becomes pure in his heart.
Measure Gauri Cheti Hymns of Nam Dev Ji.
There is but one God. By the true Guru's grace, He is obtained.
God has caused the stones to float.
Why should not I, Thy slave, float over by repeating Thine Name? Pause.
Thou hast saved the courtesan and ugly hunch-back and hast caused the hunter and Ajamal to swim across.
The man slayer, who shot Krishana in the foot, even he was emancipated.
I am a sacrifice a sacrifice unto those who repeat God's Name.
Thou saved Sudama and slave Bidur, the son of a hand maiden and gave sovereignty to Ugarsain.
So much so that those without devotion, without penance, without good family and without Good acts, Nama's Lord has saved them all.
Measure Gauri, Padas of Ravi Dass Ji Gauri Guareri.
There is but one God. True is His Name and creative His personality. By the Guru's grace He is obtained
Day and night I am infested with the anxiety, that my association is low,
my acts are crooked and my birth is mean.
O God, the Lord of earth the Giver of life to men,
forget me not. I am a slave of Thine. Pause.
Remove my distress and grant unto me, Thy serf, Thine sublime love.
I shall not leave Thine feet even though my body may perish tomorrow.
Says Ravi Dass, I have sought Thine protection, O Lord,
quickly meet Thy servant and make no delay.
Begampura is the name of the town.
At that place there is no pain or worry.
There is no fear of tax of goods there.
Neither awe, nor error, nor dread nor decline is there.
I have now found an excellent abode.
My brethren there is ever-lasting safety there. Pause.
Firm, stable and for aye is the sovereignty of God.
There is no second or third, he alone is there.
Populated and ever famous is that city.
The wealthy and the content dwell there.
As they please, so do they stroll about.
They are the knowers of the Master's Mansion so none does obstruct them.
Says Ravi Dass, the emancipated shoe-maker,
he who is my fellow citizen is a friend of mine.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Gauri Bairagan Ravi Dass Ji.
The path to God is very difficult and mountainous and I have worthless ox.
I make one request unto the pervading Lord, the Enemy of pride, to preserve my capital
Is there any merchant of God to join me? My cargo is laden and is on the move. Pause.
I am the merchant of the Lord and deal in Divine knowledge.
I have loaded the wealth of Lord's Name and the world has laden poison.
O ye, the knowers of this world and the next one, write whatever nonsense you please about me.
The club of Death's courier will not touch me since I have cast away all involvements.
As is the fleeting colour of saf-flower, so is this world.
But the colour of my pervading God is the permanent dye of madder. Says Rav-Dass, the tanner.
Gauri Purbi Ravi Dass Ji.
There is but one God by the grace of the True Guru, He is obtained.
As a frog, in a well full of water has no knowledge on native and foreign lands.
So my soul, infatuated with vice has no idea to this world and the next.
O Lord of all the worlds, show me Thine sight for a moment. Pause.
My understanding is gone dirty and I cannot understand Thy condition O Lord of light.
Take pity on me that my doubt may be dispelled, and teach me the right understanding.
The supreme Yogis cannot explain Thine excellences which are beyond expression.
Ravi Dass, the tanner, prays for Thine love and devotional service.
Gauri Bairagan.
There is but One God. By the grace of the true Guru, He is obtained.
In the Gold-age was truth, in the Silver age sacrificial feast and in the Brass age the performance of good Worship.
In the three ages men held fast to these three. In the Iron-age the Name is the only prop.
How shall I swim across.
No one explains and brings it home to me,
by which me transmigration may cease. Pause.
Many forms of religion are described and the entire world is seen adopting them.
What are the acts by which I may be emancipate and by performing which I may obtain all perfection?
If merits and demerits are discriminated by hearing Vedas and Puranas, doubt is created.
Doubt ever abides within the mind, who can dispel my pride?
Outside of his body, man washes with water, but within his mind are vices of many descriptions.
But how shall he be pure? His method to procure purity is like the procedure of an elephant.
As the entire world knows that the night comes to and end with the rising of the Sun.
Believe that with the touch of philosopher stone copper turns into gold, without delay.
If the supreme Philosopher's stone Guru be found by virtue of the primal writing on the brow,
then the soul and the admantine shutters are opened.
Doubts, entanglements and sins of him, who makes the way of devotion firm in his mind, are cut away.
He restrains his mind, attains joy and meditates on Him alone who is with and without qualities.
Many methods have I tried, but by warding off, the noose of doubt is not warded off.
Love and meditation have not sprung up in me, therefore Ravi Dass is sad.
There is but one God. True is his Name, Creative and All-pervading His personality and Immortal His form, He is without fear, without enmity, Unborn and Self-illumined. By the grace of Guru He is obtained.
Asa measure, 1st Guru. Sodar.
How like is that gate and how the mansion, sitting where in, Thou takes care of all, O Lord.
Countless musical instruments, of various types, resound there, and numerous there musicians.
Good many measures with their consorts, and good many minstrels hymn thee.
Sing thee the wind, the water and the fire, and the Righteous justice sings Thine praises at thy door.
Chitar Gupat, the recording angles, who know how to write and on the basis of whose scribed writ, the Righteous judge adjudicates, hymn thee.
Shiva, Brahma and goddess, ever beautiful and adorned by thee, hymn thee.
Indras seated on their thrones, with the deities, at thy gate, sing thee.
In their meditative mood, the perfect persons sing of thee, and the saints, in their contemplation, sing as well.
The continent the true and the patient sing thine praises and the dauntless warriors hymn thee.
The scholars, the readers of the Vedas of all the ages, together with the (seven) supreme sages, exalt Thee.
The captivating she-seraphs, who beguile the heart in paradise, this world and the nether regions, sing Thee.
The fourteen invaluable articles, created by thee with sixty eight place of pilgrimage, hymn thee.
The Supremely mighty warriors and Divine heroes sing thee and the four sources of creation magnify thee.
The continents, the world and the solar systems, created and installed by thee, chant thine glories.
Thine saints, who are pleasing to thee and who are steeped in the Name, the home of Nectar, also eulogise thee.
Many others, whom I cannot recollect within my mind, sing thee. How can Nanak think of them?
That, that Lord is ever true. He is true and true is His Name.
He, who created the creation, is and shall also be. H shall not depart when the creation shall disappear or depart.
God, who fashioned the world has by diverse contrivances created the creation of various colous and kinds.
Having created the creation, He, as it pleases his honour, beholds his handi-work.
Whatever pleases him, He does that. To Him, no one can issue an order.
He is the king, the emperor of kings. O Nanak! It behooves to remain subject to His will.
Asa measure, 4th Guru.
That Lord is pure. Lord God is sans stain. God is unapproachable, unintelligible (unfathomable) and unrivalled.
All meditate, all meditate on Thee O Reverend God, the True Creator.
All the creatures are Thine and Thou art the Donor of the living beings.
O ye saints, meditate on God the Dispeller of all the distresses.
God Himself is the Lord and Himself the servant. How insignificant the man is, O Nanak!
Thou, O Venerable and Unique Lord (God), art uninterruptedly contained in all the hearts and everything.
Some are the givers and some the mumpers. All these are Thine wonderful plays (ways of working).
Thou Thyself art the Giver and Thyself the Enjoyer. Beside Thee, I know of none other.
Thou art the infinite and limitless Supreme Lord. What excellences of Thine should I narrate and recount.
Serf Nanak is a sacrifice unto those who serve who serve Thee, O Sire Lord.
Those who deliberate and ponder over Thee, O Sire Lord, those persons abide in peace in this world.
Emancipated and liberated are they who remember Thee, O Sire God. Their death's noose is cut.
They who meditate in the Fearless, the Fearless Lord all their fear is shaken off.
They who have served they who have served my Sire God they are absorbed in the personality of Lord God.
Blest are they blest are they who have meditated on Sire God. Serf Nanak is devoted unto them.
Infinite and innumerable treasures of Thine meditation, Thine devoted meditation ever remain brimful.
In many and various ways the numberless saints of Thine saints of Thine, O God, praise Thee.
Good many and several perform Thy worship, O endless God! They practise penance and repeat Thy Name.
Many, numerous men of Thine read good many Simirtis and Shashtras. They perform rituals and six religious rites.
Sublime are those saints, those saints, O Serf Nanak, who are pleasing to my Auspicious Master.
Thou art the Primal Being, the most exalted Creator, none else is as great as Thee.
From age to age Thou art One and ever and ever Thou art identically the same. Such an ever-stable Creator Thou alone art, O Lord.
Whatever Thou Thyself likest that comes to pass and whatever Thyself Thou doest, that comes to pass.
Thou Thy-self created the whole Universe and having done so, Thou Thyself shalt destroy it.
Slave Nanak sings the praises of the Sire Creator, who is the Knower of one and all.
There is but one God. By the grace of the True Guru He is obtained.
Asa Measure, 1st Guru. Chaupde
By hearing, everyone calls Thee great O Lord.
But who has seen Thee knows how great Thou art.
None can appraise and narrate Thee.
Thine describers remain absorbed in Thee.
O my great Master of Unfathomable depth, Thou art an ocean of excellences.
None knows, how much and how great Thy expanse is. Pause.
Meeting together, all the contemplators have practised contemplation.
All the appraisers having met together and have appraised thy worth.
The theologians, the visualisers and they who are the preachers of preachers have described Thee.
But, thy cannot tell even an iota of Thine greatness.
All truths, all austerities, all goodnesses;
and the magnificences of the miraculous men;
without Thee none has attained such powers.
With Thine grace they are procured. No one can obstruct and stop their flow.
What can the helpless utterer do?
Thine treasures are brimful with Thy praises.
Why should He, whom Thou givest think of some, other means?
O Nanak, the True One Himself is the embellisher.
Asa Mesure. 1st Guru.
By repeating Thy Name I live. By forgetting it, I die.
Difficult it is to repeat the True Name.
If man feels appetite for the True Name,
then, that appetite consumes his pains.
How can He be forgotten O my Mother?
True is the Lord and true is His Name. Pause.
Of even a fraction of the greatness of the True Name,
people have grown weary of recounting, but have not been able to appraise it.
Were all men to meet and glorify Thee,
Thou would grow neither greater nor lesser.
That Lord dies not nor there is any mourning (on that account).
He continues to give and His provisions never run short.
This is His vitrue that none else is like Him.
There has been none, nor there shall be any.
As great as Thou art, O Lord so great are Thine gifts.
Thine is the personality who makest the day and the night, too.
Vile are they who forget their Master.
O Nanak, the True One Himself is the embellisher.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
If a beggar cries aloud at the door, the Husband (God) hears it in His Mansion.
O Lord, grant unto Thine beggar one honour- either that of giving consolation or a push.
Recognise Lord's light within all and inquire not the caste, as there is no caste in the next world. Pause.
The Lord acts Himself and Himself causes to act.
He Himself pays attention to complaints.
Since, Thou, O Creator, art the doer,
why and what for, should I, then, owe subservience to the world?
Thou Thyself didst create and Thyself doest bestow.
Thou Thyself forbiddest evil inclinations.
By Guru's grace, when the Lord comes to abide in man's mind,
his suffering and darkness flee from within then.
He Himself infuses the love for truth.
Unto others He bestows not truth.
If He blesses some one with truth says Nanak, He asks for no account from him here-after.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
The mind's impulses are like cymbals and ankle-bells,
and with them, continually thumps the drum of the world.
The hermits like Narad dance under the influence of the Dark-age.
Where can men of continence and truth place their feet?
Unto the Lord's Name, O Nanak, I am a sacrifice.
Blind is the world and all-seeing is the Lord. Pause.
The disciple, rather, feeds on his Master,
and for the love of bread comes to dwell in his home.
If man were to live and eat hundreds of years,
that day alone would be acceptable when he recognises the Lord.
Compassion is not excited by beholding the sight of the petitioner.
There is no one, who receives or bribes not.
The King administers justice only if his palm is greased,
and in the name of God none is moved.
Nanak says that men are men only in shape and name.
In deeds they are dogs; this is the command of the Lord's court.
By Guru's grace, if man deems himself a guest in this world,
then does he acquire some honour in God's court.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
As much is the sound in the mind, that much is Thy tune, O God, and all the forms are Thy body.
Thou Thyself art the tongue and Thyself the nose, O Lord. Talk not of any other, O my mother.
My Lord is but one.
He is one alone, O brother. He is one in one. Pause.
He Himself annihilates and Himself releases. He of Himself takes and of Himself gives.
He Himself beholds and Himself rejoices. He Himself casts His merciful glance.
Whatever He is to do, that He is doing. None else can do anything.
As He acts, so do I describe Him. All greatness is Thine, O Lord.
The Dark-age is the wine-vessel. Mammon is the sweet wine and the intoxicated mind continues to drink it.
The Lord Himself assumes many kinds of forms. The Poor Nanak says like this.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
Make intellect thy organ and love thy tambourine.
By these joy and buoyant pleasure are ever produced in the mind.
This is the devotional service and this the practice of penance.
In this love, dance thou, beating time with thine feet.
Deem the praise of the Lord as thy beating time.
Other dances produces sensuous pleasure in the mind. Pause.
Play truth and contentment as thine pair of cymbals.
Make the perpetual vision of the Lord thy ankle bells.
Let the stilling of duality be thy music and song.
In such an affection, dance thou by beating time with thy feet.
Make the fear of Lord in thy heart and mind, thy gyrations,
whether sitting or standing and for ever.
To roll in the dust is to know the body as ashes.
In such an affection, dance thou by beating time with thine feet.
Thy audience should be the disciples, who enshrine love for instruction.
From the Guru, hear thou the True Name.
Nanak, again and again repeat thou the Name of the Master.
In this live dance thou by beating time with thy feet.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
Having created the air the Lord supported the whole earth and bound water and fire together into a system.
The ten-headed blind Ravan had his head cut off, but what greatness was obtained by slaying him?
What glory of Thine, O Lord, can be uttered?
Thou art fully pervading every where and bearest love to Thine creatures. Pause.
O Lord, when Thou has created the beings and holdest in Thy hand Their destiny, it is no greatness to put a ring in the nose of black cobra (as done by Lord Krishna.)
Whose Husband art Thou? Who is said to be Thy wife? Thou art uniformly contained amongst all.
Brahma, the grantor of boons with his progeny went into the lotus tube to ascertain the world's extent.
Proceeding further, he could not find the limit thereof. What glory was obtained by killing Kans, the King?
The Ocean of milk was churned and the gems were produced and brought forth. The gods and demons indignantly roared, "We have done this".
Says Nanak, by concealing how can the Lord be concealed? He distributed all the gems one by one.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
The vine of good actions and true character is spread out and it bears the fruit of Lord's Name.
The Name has no form or outline and it resounds spontaneously. Through the Name, the pure Lord is revealed.
IF one understands the Name, then, alone he can discourse there-on.
He alone quaffs the Nectar (of the Name). Pause.
They, who taste ambrosia are elated and their bonds and halters are cut off.
When man's light blends in the Divine Light, then greed for mammon is ended.
Amongst all lights, I behold Thy form. All the worlds are Thine wealth.
Amidst various forms and their disputes He sits aloof and casts His merciful glance even on those who are engrossed in spiritual ignorance.
The Yogi who plays on the flute of God's Name, sees the sight of the infinitely beautiful Lord.
Says the meek Nanak, that He, the Lord is absorbed in the celestial strain of the Name.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
The virtue in me is that in my head I carry the load of talking.
The most excellent of all the talks is the talk of the Creator.
Vain is eating, drinking and laughing,
unless one remembers not the Lord in his mind.
What for and why should you heed for anything else
If you gather Name, the thing worth having, throughout your entire life? Pause.
Mind's intellect is like a drunk elephant.
Whatever one utters, is all utterly erroneous of the erroneous.
With what face should we make the supplication,
when both vice and virtue are close at hand as witnesses?
As thou makest any one, so dose he become.
Without thee, is not any other
As is the understanding thou givest any one, the like-wise he receives.
As it please thee, so do thou drivest the man.
The divine music with its consorts and family is a gem.
From within that, the essence of ambrosia is produced.
Nanak, this is the wealth and property of the creator.
If one were to understand, this is point of view?
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
When through His kindness, the bridegroom come to my house, then, meeting together, my girlfriends arranged for the marriage.
Seeing this play, my mind become happy. My groom, the Lord, has come to wed me.
Sing, sing, O ladies, the songs of wisdom and reflection.
In to my house, has come my spouse, the life of the world. Pause.
When through the Guru, I was wedded, and I met my spouse, then, I did recognise him.
His name pervades the three worlds, and when my pride was stilled, my mind become happy.
His own affair the Lord Himself arranges. This affair cannot be arranged by any other.
Through the Guru, some rare person understands this marriage, by which truth, contentment, mercy and faith are produced.
Says Nanak, that Lord along is the spouse of all.
She, on whom He casts His merciful glance, becomes a blessed wife.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
Home and forest are alike for him, who abides in equipoise.
His evil intellect departs and God's praise takes its place.
To utter the true name with the mouth, is the true ladder to ascend to the Lord.
By serving the true Guru, man finds his own place.
Slaying of one's self is the knowledge of the six Shashtras.
The light of the Lord is fully pervading all. Pause.
Excessive thirst (of mammon) makes man adopt many religious garbs.
The pain of sin destroys the body comforts.
Lust and wrath steal away the wealth of the soul.
By abandoning duality, man is saved by repeating.
In Lord's praise and admiration is divine bliss.
Lord's love is mortals friend and relation.
God Himself is the doer the doer and Himself the pardoner.
My body and soul are at God's disposal and my life is at his command.
Falsehood and voice cause great annoyance.
All the false religious garbs and castes look like just.
He, who is born, continues coming and going.
O Nanak, Lord's will alone is eternal.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
In the tank is the unique and beautiful lotus.
It ever blooms and is of the pure form.
The swan picks up bright jewels.
He is akin to the All powerful Lord of the universe.
Who -so -ever is seen, he is subject to birth and death.
In the tank without water, the lotus is not seen. Pause.
Some rare one knows and understands this secret.
The Vedas, ever talk of three branches.
He, who merges into the knowledge of the Absolute and Relative Lord,
obtains the supreme status by serving the True Guru.
He, who is imbued with Lord's love and utter his Name, is emancipated.
He is the King of Kings and ever, blossoms.
He, whom Thou presevest by showing thy mercy, O Floater,
though he be a sinking stone, him the floatest across.
In the three worlds is Thine Light and I realise Thee permeating the three worlds.
By turning my attention from mammon. I have brought myself within my home (self-realization).
He who immersed in love, day and night, performs Lord's devotional service,
Nanak falls at the feet of him.
Asa Measure 1st Guru.
On receiving the Guru's true instruction, man's cavil departs.
Through excessive cleverness, the dust of sin clings to the mortal.
By the Lord's true name is removed the dust of attachment.
By Guru's favour, the mortal remains drenched in the love of the true name.
The Lord is just present. Make supplication in his presence.
Woe and weal are in the hand of Lord, the true creator. Pause.
He, who practices falsehood continues coming and going (dying and taking birth).
By merely saying and describing, the man finds not his limit.
Whatsoever has he seen, he attains not understanding.
Without the name, appeasement enters not the man's mind.
They, who are born, are engrossed in disease,
and are tortured by the pain of mammon's pride.
Only those person, are saved, whom the Lord preserves.
By serving the true Guru, they quaff the immortalising nectar.
He, who restrains his unstable mind, tastes ambrosia.
By serving upon the Satguru, man cherishes the ambrosial Gurbani.
Through the true word of the Guru (Gurbani), one obtains the dignity of salvation,
and then, O Nanak, he loses self-conceit from within.
Asa Measure 1st Guru.
Whatever, he, the Lord, has done has come out true.
The true Guru gives the man Nectareous Name.
With the name in his heart, he mentally separates not from him,
and night and day abides in the association of his beloved.
O reverend God, keep me under Thine protection.
By Guru's favour, I have obtained God's elixir, and received the nine treasure of the name. Pause.
Those, whose action and faith lie in the true one,
unto them, I am ever a sacrifice.
Acceptable become the persons, who are imbued with the Lord.
In their association supreme wealth is attained.
Blessed is the bride, who has obtained God as her spouse.
She ponders over the Name and is blended with God.
She not only is herself emancipated but also saves the entire assemblage.
She serves the true Guru and deliberates over the reality.
The true name is my caste and honour.
Love of truth is my rituals, faith and self-control.
Nanak, he, whom the Lord forgives, is not called to account.
He, the Lord alone, effaces duality.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
Some are born, and some having been born, die away.
Imbued with the Lord, some remain absorbed in him.
Some get no resting place on earth or in sky.
They, the unfortunate ones, remember not God's name.
From the perfect Guru, the way to salvation is obtained.
This world, an exceedingly terrible ocean, is like poison and by means of Gurbani, the Lord makes the man to cross it. Pause.
They, whom the Lord unites with himself, them,
the death cannot crush.
The sweet Guru-wards remain unsoiled,
like the lotus that remains unaffected in and on water.
Say, whom should we call good and whom bad, when the Lord is see amongst all.
It is through the Guru, that the truth is known,
and I utter the Unutterable Lord and ponder on the Guru's instruction.
I associate with Guru's congregation and fathom the Lord's limit's.
The knowledge of the many secrets of Shashtras, Vedas and Simirtis,
and bathing at sixty eight holy places lies in enshrining God's elixir in the mind.
Pure are the Guru--wards. No filth attaches to them.
By virtue of the primal greatest good luck, O Nanak, God's name abides in the heart.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
Bowing and bowing, I fall at the feet of my Guru, by whose grace, I have seen the Omnipresent soul.
See and ascertain within thy mind, that through meditation God abides in the heart.
Utter thou the Lord's Name, which shall redeem thee.
By Guru's grace, God the jewel is found, wherewith ignorance is dispelled and the Divine light shines. Pause.
By mere utterance with the tongue, the bonds are not broken and pride and doubt depart not from within.
When man meets the True Guru, his egotism departs and it is only then that he becomes fruitful.
Lord God's Name is sweet and dear to the Saints. It is an ocean of peace to be enshrined in the mind.
The Lover of His devotees, the Life of the world and the Munificent Master, saves the mortal, who subordinates his intellect to Guru's instruction.
He, who dies fighting against his mind, obtain the Lord and his desire is nipped in the mind.
Nanak, if God, the Life of the world shows mercy the mortal imbibes love for Him in the natural way.
Asa Measure 1st Guru.
Whom else do they speak to, to whom do they preach and whom do thy instruct? They have understood themselves.
Whom do thy teach? Through study, thy have realised Lord's excellences. By True Guru's instruction, thy abide in contentment.
O my soul, by Guru's instruction remember such Lord,
who is contained in all the bodies and who is very deep. Pause.
In service and love of God there are many joy-waves.
He, who keeps the company of God's praises, ever, remains pure.
Vain is the birth of mammon worshipper in this world.
Detached remains the man dedicated to Lord's service.
Sanctified is the body which sings God's praise.
Remembering God in the mind man remains absorbed in His love.
The Lord is the beginning of all, Infinite, the Remotest of the remote and Invaluable.
With that Beloved my mind is imbued and content.
They, who only utter and say are really dead.
He, the Lord is not far-off, Thou, O Lord art close at hand.
I have found the entire world enveloped by mammon.
Nanak, by Guru's instruction, I have meditated on the Name.
Asa Measure 1st Guru.
One is a beggar, who lives on charity,
and one a King who remains absorbed in himself.
One receives honour and the other dishonour.
The Lord destroys and creates and keeps all in His mind.
Than Thee, none is greater, O Lord.
Whom should I present to Thee?
My support is Thy Name alone.
Thou art the Bestower, Doer and the Creator. Pause.
I walk not Thy way and follow a zigzag (wrong) path.
Consequently, I get no room to sit in God's court.
I am mentally blind and fettered by mammon,
and the wall of my body is ever wearing off and getting weak.
Thou cherisheth high hope to eat and to live longer,
but thou knowest not that thine breaths and morsels are already counted.
O Lord, ever grant light to the blind man,
and take care of him. Whose is drowning in the terrible world ocean.
Those who utter hear and believe in the Name,
I am a sacrifice unto them.
Nanak makes one supplication that,
his soul and body are all at Thy disposal, O Lord.
If Thou so grantest, I shall repeat Thy Name.
Thus shall I secure room to sit in God's court.
When Thou willest then evil-intellect is eliminated,
and the jewel of Divine knowledge, comes and abides in the mind.
When the Lord casts His merciful glance then man meets the True Guru,
and crosses the dreadful world-ocean; O Nanak.
Asa Measure 1st Guru. Panchpade.
A cow without milk, a bird without wings and vegetation without water are of no avail.
What is a King without salutation? Dark is the soul-chamber without Thy Name.
Why should I forget Thee, without whom I suffer much pain?
Forsake me not my Lord, because I (without Thee) set afflicted with pain. Pause.
Man's eyes grow blind his tongue loses its taste and his ears hear not the sound.
He walks with his feet only when supported and led by another. Such are the fruits that life bears sans service.
In the spacious farm of thy heart's garden grow the plant of Guru's teaching and irrigate it with Lord's love.
All the trees bear the fruit of the Name of One God. Without His grace how can man obtain it?
As many are the living beings, so many are Thine. Without service none obtains any reward.
Woe and weal are in Thy will. Without the Name life exists not.
To die by Guru's instruction is the True Life. How can there be live otherwise? If I live otherwise then that is not the right way.
Says Nanak the Lord grants life to the sentient beings. Keep me Thou O Lord, there, where Thou willest.
Asa Measure 1st Guru.
I make my body the Brahman, the heart the lion-cloth, Divine Knowledge the sacred thread,
and meditation the leaves of spear grass.
In place of bath at holies, I beg for God's Name and praise.
By Guru's favour I shall merge into the Lord.
O Pandit, so meditate on the Lord,
that His Name may be thy purification, His Name thy learning, His Name thy wisdom and way of life. Pause.
The outer 'Janeu' (sacred thread) lasts so long as there is Divine light within Thee.
Make the remembrance of the Name thy lion-cloth and frontal mark.
The Name alone shall stand by thee here and hereafter.
Search for no other deeds, but the Name.
Worship the Lord with love, and burn thy desire for wealth.
See but one God and seek no other.
See thou the Reality at the firmament of the tenth gate,
and read thou with thy mouth God's gospel and ponder over it.
With the diet of Lord's love, doubt and dread flee away.
If the sentinel is of imposing personality the thief dare not break in.
The knowledge of One Lord is the sacrificial mark on the forehead.
The realisation that the Lord is within thee is thy discrimination.
God cannot be won over through the religious rites,
and through the recitation of religious texts His worth cannot be ascertained.
Eighteen Puranas and four Vedas know not His secret.
Nanak, the True Guru has shown me the Lord.
Asa Measure 1st Guru.
The Guru-ward who becomes the Lord's attendant,
he alone is the servant, slave and devotee.
He, who has created the universe shall ultimately destroy it.
Without Him there is no another second.
By Guru's instruction the Guru ward deliberates over the True Name,
and is adjudged true in the True court. Pause.
The true supplication and the hearty prayer,
the Spouse hears and applauds within His Mansion.
He, the Lord, summons the righteous to His throne,
and He honours them and what He wills that comes to pass.
Thine is the might and Thou art my prop.
Gurbani is my true pass-word.
He, who obeys Lord's command openly goes to Him.
With the Pass-word of truth, he is not obstructed.
The Brahman reads and expounds the Vedas.
He knows not the secret of the commodity within him.
Without the Guru this understanding and knowledge is not obtained,
that the True Lord is pervading everywhere.
What should I say utter and describe.
Thou, O All-wonder, Thyself knowest every-thing.
Nanak gets the support only at one door,
there in the true door, the pious persons have their livelihood.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
The earthen pitcher of the body is, miserable and in birth and death it suffers pain.
How can this terrible world ocean be crossed? Without the divine Guru it cannot be ferried over.
There is none but thee. O my beloved. without thee, O God, there is not another.
In all the colours and forms art thou, he pardons him on whom he looks with favour. Pause.
My mother-in-law (mammon) is bad and she lets me not dwell at home. The vicious one lets me not meet my spouse.
Of the comrades and friends I serve the feet. By Guru's grace, God has looked on me with favour.
Reflecting on myself and chastening my mind, I have seen that like thee, there is no other friend.
As thou keepest me, so do I live. Thou art the Dispenser of pain and peace. what thou doest that comes to pass.
Both hope and desire I have dispelled, and I have renounced longing for mammon of three qualities.
By seeking the shelter of the congregation of saints, the true Sikh of the Guru, obtain the ecstatic state.
He, in whose heart the invisible and inscrutable God abides, possesses one and all gnosis, concentration, mediation and penance.
Nanak, he whose mind is imbued with Lord's Name, readily obtains God's service under Guru's instruction.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru. Panchpade.
Abandon love of family and love of every affair.
Leave aside worldly love, as it is all sinful and purposeless.
Forsake thou worldly love and superstition (doubt),
O brother, and with thy Name. Pause.
When man receives the nine treasures of True Name,
his children weep not, nor his mother grieves.
In this worldly love, the world is drowned.
Some rare, pious person swims across.
For reasons of this false love, the mortal are born again.
Attached to temporal love, the man goes to the City of Death.
Having obtained Guru's instruction, practises thou meditation and hard toil.
Neither is the temporal love sundered, nor is the man approved.
If the Lord casts His merciful glance, then does this love depart.
The man then, remains blended with God, `Nanak.
Asa Measure, 1st Guru.
The Invisible and Infinite True Lord, Himself does everything.
I am a sinner and Thou art the Pardoner.
In Thy will, everything is accomplished.
He, who acts through mind's obstinacy, is ultimately ruined. Pause.
The way-ward man's intellect is engrossed in falsehood.
Without God's remembrance, it is afflicted by sin.
By discarding evil-intellect, reap thou some benefit.
Who-so-ever is born, he is through the Unknowable and Inscrutable Lord.
Such is my friend and helper.
By meeting the Guru-God, Lord's Devotional Service is implanted in me,
in all other transactions one suffers loss.
To Nanak's mind, the Lord's Name is pleasing.
Asa Measure 1st Guru. Chaupade
If thou art to deliberate over thy knowledge, only then wilt thou become the benefactor of all.
When thou correctest (controls) thine five evil passions, then, shalt thou become the dweller at the pilgrimage station.
If the mind is fixed, then that is the tinkling of small bells.
Then, what can the death's courier, do unto me, hereafter? Pause.
when man abandons desire, then does he become a true renouncer.
when the yogi practises chastity, then he enjoys his body.
He is the naked-hermit, who has compassion and examines his inner-self.
He says his ownself and slays nor others.
Thou Lord, art but one and many are thine garbs.
Nanak know not thine wondrous plays.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
I am not soiled with one sin, that may be washed clean with virtue alone.
my spouse awakes and sleep the whole night.
How can I, thus become dear to my spouse?
My Husband keeps awake, I sleep the whole night. Pause.
Desiring and thirsting to meet my groom, I approach His couch,
but I know not further, if I please Him not.
How do I know what shall befall me, O my mother?
Without the sight of God I can survive not. Pause.
I have not tasted love and my thirst is not quenched,
my beautiful youth has fled away and I, the bride, repent.
Even now, I awake smitten with intense expectation.
I have become sad and remain without hope. Pause.
If she stills her ego and so adorns herself,
then the groom enjoys the bride on his bed-stead.
Then, Nanak, the bride becomes pleasing to the mind of her spouse.
She sheds her self-conceit and gets absorbed in her beloved. Pause.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
In my father's house (this world), I the bride, remained very childish,
and I knew not the worth of my Spouse.
My spouse is but One. there is no other second like Him.
If He casts a glance of glance of grace, then shall I meet Him. Pause.
In father-in-law's house (the next world) the bride shall know the reality,
and shall easily recognise her beloved.
If by Guru's grace she obtains such wisdom,
then, the bride shall become pleasing to her Spouse's heart.
Says Nanak, she, who adorns herself with Lord's awe and love,
ever enjoys her spouse on the couch (of her heart).
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
Neither there is any one's son, nor is there any one's mother.
Through false worldly love, the mortal wanders in doubt.
My Master, I am thy creation.
If thou givest it to me, I will repeat thy Name. Pause.
If, one full of numerous sins, prays at Lord's door,
only when he wills, He pardons him.
By Guru's grace evil-intellect is surrendered.
Wherever I seen, I find that One Lord there.
Says Nanak, if one obtains such an understanding,
then is he absorbed in the Truest of the True.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru. Dupade.
In that world-pool the mortal has attained an abode where the water and fire, He, the Lord has made.
In the mire of worldly love his feet move on not and I have seen him.
O foolish man, why rememberest thou not the One Lord in thy mind?
By forgetting God, thy virtues, O man, shall wither away. Pause.
I am not a continent, nor I claim to be a true man, and a scholar. foolish and ignorant I am born in this world.
Prays Nanak, I have sought the sanctuary of those, who forget thee not, O Lord.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
There are six systems, six their teacher and six their doctrines.
But teacher of teachers is the One Lord, though he has various.
The System or house where-in the praises of the creator are uttered,
follow that system. In it rests thy greatness. Pause.
As seconds, minutes, hours, quarters of a day, lunar days, week days, months,
and several seasons, spring from the lone sun;
likewise, originate many life forms from the creator, O Nanak.
There is but One God, by true Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru.
Thou mayest have lacs of armies, lacs of band and lances, and lacs of men may rise to pay homage to thee;
Thy dominion may extend over lace of miles and lace of men may rise to do thee honour;
but if thy honour be of no account to thy Lord, then, all the ostentations are futile.
Without God's name, the world is but a turmoil.
Even though the fool be much admonished, he remains the blindest of the blind. Pause.
The man may earn lacs of rupees, amass and spend lacs, and lacs may come and lacs may go;
but, if men obtain not credit in Lord's account, where, then, shall they get asylum?
Lacs of Shashtras may be explained to the mortal, and of Brahmans, may read Puranas to him.
If his honour be of no consideration to the Lord, then all is unacceptable.
From the True name- the kind creator's Name-honour is obtained.
Day and night, if the Name abides in man's heart, O Nanak! he shall swim across (the ocean of passions) through God's grace.
Asa 1st Guru.
The Name alone is my lamp, and the oil of suffering I have put therein.
The name's lamp-light has dried up the oil of suffering and I have escaped meeting Death's courier.
O ye people, make me not an object of derision.
Lacs of logs of wood, heaped together, need but a particle of fire to burn. Pause.
The Lord is my barley-rolls and leafy plates and the True name of the Creator is my obsequies.
Here and hereafter, in the past and future, this is my support.
Thy praise is my Ganges and Kashi, and my pervading soul baths there.
If day and night I enshrine affection for Thee, then, that becomes my true ablution.
Some barley - balls are given to ancestors and others to gods, but it is Pandit who kneads and eats them.
Nanak, the barley-balls of the gift of the Lord are never exhausted.
Asa 1st Guru.
There is but One God, by True Guru's grace He is obtained.
The Gods, for seeing the Lord's sight, suffered pain and hunger, and roamed round the holies.
The yogies and the celibates live under discipline, while others wear ochre-coloured dresses and become hermits.
To meet thee, O Lord, they are imbued with love.
Many are thy Names and infinite thine forms and it cannot be told how many merits thou hast. Pause.
Leaving house-gates, palaces, elephants, horses and native land, men have gone to foreign countries in thy search.
The religious leaders, prophets, the pioneers and the faithful have abandoned mammon and have become acceptable.
Abandoning relish, rest, happiness and dainties, some doff clothes and wear skins.
Imbued with thy Name, the affected and woe-begone mortals have become beggars at thy gate.
To seek thee, some become skin-wearers, begging-bowl carriers wooden staff- bearers and deer skin- users. Others wear hair-tufts, sacred threads and loin-cloths.
Thou art the Lord and I am a buffoon of Thine. Prays Nanak, what can my cast be?
Asa 1st Guru.
There is but One God, By true Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The five evil passions dwell concealed within My mind.
They remain not still and wander like a deserter.
My soul remains not tied to the merciful master.
The avaricious, deceitful, vicious and hypocritical soul is excessively linked with worldliness. Pause.
I will adorn my neck with garland of flowers.
When I meet my Beloved, then will I put on decorations.
I have five mates and one spouse.
It is ordained from the beginning that the soul is liable to depart.
The five mates bewail in unison.
Prays Nanak, when the soul is arrested, it is called to account.
There is but One God, by True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Asa 1st Guru.
If her mind's pearl, like an ornament, be weaved into the thread of breath,
and the bride puts on the decoration of compassion on her person, then, the Beloved enjoys His sweets heart.
O my Love, I, the bride, am fascinated by Thine many merits.
Thine excellences are not found in another. Pause.
If the bride wears the Lord's Name as a garland around her neck and has the tooth -paste of God.
If she makes and wears the bracelet of the Creator, on her hand, then, in this way, she shall hold her mind.
She should make God, the slayer of Madh demon, her finger-ring to wear and have the Supreme Lord as her silken clothes.
The damsel should weave patience into her plaited hair and apply the salve of the Lover of eminence.
If she kindles the lamp of Divine knowledge in her mind's mansion and makes her body the couch,
then, when the King of Divinity comes to her couch, He enjoys her.
Asa 1st Guru.
The created one does, what he is caused to do. what can we say unto him, O brother?
Whatever the Lord is to do, that he is doing. The wisdom of the created, avails nothing.
Thy will is sweet to me, O God, This is pleasing to thee.
Nanak, he alone receives honour, who is absorbed in the true Name. Pause.
As is the written order of the Lord, so do we do the deeds, and none can turn back the order.
As is the record, so does it come to pass, no one can erase it.
He, who talks much before audience, is termed a joker.
He succeeds not in playing at chess and his chess-men reach not the goal.
By himself no one is literate, learned or evil person.
When he eulogises the Lord with slave's mentality, then alone can he be called a man.
Asa 1st Guru.
Let Guru's word be the ear-rings in thy mind, and wear thou the patched coat of for-bearance.
Whatever the Lord does, consider that as good. Thus shalt thou easily obtain the treasure of Yog.
O father, the soul thus united is a Yogi, all the ages through, and it is absorbed in the Supreme quintessence.
He, who has obtained the ambrosial Name of the pleasure of Divine knowledge. Pause.
He forsakes desires and disputes and sits in contemplative mood in the Lord's City (audience).
From the horn's sound, an ever lasting and beautiful melody is produced, which day and night, fills him with Divine music.
Reflection is his cup, Divine knowledge his sectarian staff and to abide in Lord's presence is his ashes.
God's praise is my vocation, and the Exalted Guru's way is my pure religion.
Mine arms -support is to see Lord's light amongst all, and it has various and many colours.
Say's Nanak, listen thou, O Bharthari Yogi! I profess love only for the Supreme Lord.
Asa 1st Guru.
Make gnosis thy molasses and meditation thine flowers of Basia-latifolia, and in them out the doing of good actions as thy fermenting bark.
Make faith thy furnace and love thy plaster and in this way the sweet Nactar is distilled.
O sire! by quaffing the Name-Nectar, mind becomes intoxicated and easily remains absorbed in Lord's love.
By fixing attention on God's affection and hearing celestial strain, day and night become fruitful. Pause.
The perfect One, in a natural way, gives this cup of truth to drink to him, on whom he casts His merciful glance.
Why should he, who is the dealer of Nectar, cherish love for paltry wine?
The Guru's word is a nectar-speech and by quaffing it, man becomes acceptable.
What should he, who is the lover of Lord's court and sight, do with salvation paradise?
He, who is imbued with God's praise, is ever a renouncer and loses not his life in gamble.
Says Nanak, hear O Bharthari Yogi, I am intoxicated with the ambrosial stream of Name
Asa 1st Guru.
Having conquered Khurasan, Babar has terrified Hindustan.
The creator takes not the blame on Himself, and has sent the Mughal as death's myrmidon.
So much beating was much beating was inflicted that people shrieked. Does not Thou O God, feel compassion?
Thou, O maker, art the equal master of all.
If a mighty man smites another mighty man, then the mind feels not anger. Pause.
If a power tiger falling on a herd, kills it, then its Master is to be questioned.
The dogs have spoiled and laid waste the priceless country. No one pays heed to the dead.
O Lord, thou Thyself joins and thy-self separates, and look! this Thine greatness.
If some one gives himself a big name and revels to please his mind,
in the eyes of the Lord, he is but a worm, for all the corn that he pecks.
If the mortal remains dead of his ego while alive, then does he receive something, by repeating God's Name, O Nanak.
Asa Measure. 3rd Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's graces. He is obtained
Lord's vision is obtained though the greatest good-luck.
By Guru's instruction, true detachment is attained.
The six Hindu system are current,
but Guru's system is profound and unequalled.
By Guru's system, the way to salvation is obtained.
The True Lord Himself comes an abides in that man's mind. Pause.
Through Guru's way the world is saved,
only if man embraces it with love and affection.
Rare is the person, who intensely loves Guru's system.
By Guru's way or vision everlasting peace is obtained.
By Guru's sight or his way, the door of salvation is attained.
By serving the True Guru, one's family is saved.
For him, who is without the Guru, there is no salvation.
Deluded by sin, he suffers strokes.
By Guru's instruction, the body acquires peace and tranquility.
He who becomes resigned to Guru's will, him no pain afflicts.
Death's courier draws not near him.
Nanak the Guru's-ward is absorbed in the True Lord.
Asa 3rd Guru.
He who dies of Guru's word banishes self-conceit from within him,
and serves the True Guru without a sesame of self-interest;
in his mind, ever, abides the beneficent, Fearless Lord.
Some rare person of destiny is blessed with True Gurbani.
Amass merits, that the demerits may flee from within thee.
Thus shall thou be absorbed in the Gurbani of the Perfect Guru. Pause.
He, who is the purchaser of merits, knows the worth of merits.
He repeats the ambrosial Gurbani and the Name.
Through the True Gurbani, man becomes pure.
Through merit, that the Name is received.
The invaluable excellences cannot be acquired.
The pure soul is absorbed in the True Name.
Very lucky are they, who ponder over the Name,
and ever place in their mind God, the Bestower of merits.
They who amass merits, unto them I sacrifice.
At the True gate I sing the praise of the True One.
The Lord Himself gives gifts in natural way.
Nanak, the worth of the Lord cannot be told.
Asa 3rd Guru.
Great is the greatness of the True Guru,
as he unites those in the union of the Lord, who are separated since long.
Uniting man with the saints congregation, the Lord binds him with His ownself.
His worth, the Lord Himself knows.
In what way can one appraise God's worth?
By Guru's instruction some rare person, meets the Infinite. Un-approachable and Incomprehensible Lord. Pause.
Through the Guru, a few know Lord's worth.
Some solitary one becomes the recipient of Lord's grace.
With the sublime Gurbani, one becomes sublime.
Through the Guru, very few repeat God's Name.
Without the name the body writhes in pain and agony.
If the true Guru meets, then is the pain removed.
Without meeting the true Guru, man earns pain.
The perverse person is awarded severe punishment.
The Nectar of God's Name is exceedingly sweet.
He whom the Lord causes to drink, he alone drinks it.
By Guru's grace, does one obtain God's elixir.
Imbued with the Name, O Nanak! the mortal attains salvation.
Asa 3rd Guru.
My Lord is True, deep, and profound.
By serving Him, the body, forth-with, acquires comfort and peace.
Through His Name, the God's slaves, easily swim across.
I ever fall at their feet.
They whose mind is tinged and imbued with Lord's love,
their pain of birth and death departs and they are, easily ushered into God's court. Pause.
He, who tastes Gurbani, obtains the relish,
he gathers God's Name within his mind.
The Lord God is, ever, all-pervading.
He Himself is near and Himself afar.
Utter they all through words and speech.
He, the Lord, Himself pardons and unites with His ownself,
By merely saying and uttering, the Lord is not obtained.
By Guru's grace, He comes and abides in man's mind.
The Guru-ward eliminates pride from within.
He has discarded temporal love, and is imbued with God's love.
He ponders over the very pure word of the Guru.
O Nanak, the Name of the Lord is man's embellisher.
Asa 3rd Guru.
Attached to something else (duality) one incurs pain.
Without the Name, one's life is wasted away, in vain.
By serving the True Guru, (true) understanding is attained,
one, then, does not get attached to worldly love.
The man who, cling to the origin, become acceptable.
Through Guru's instruction, night and day, remember Lord's Name in thy heart, and know but God. Pause.
He who attached to the branch gets no reward.
For the blind actions, blind (sever) punishment is awarded.
The blind apostate finds no place of rest.
He is the worm of ordure and putrefies in ordure.
In Guru's service, the mortal always obtains peace,
and meeting the society of saints, sings God's praise.
He, who meditates on the Name of the Illustrious Lord,
saves himself and saves his lineage, as well.
By the hymns of the Guru, the Name resounds in the mind.
Through the Name, man obtains Lord's presence within his heart's home, O Nanak.
Under Guru's instruction, bathe thou in the Name water of the tank of truth,
thus thy filth of evil-intellect and sin shall all be washed off.
Asa 3rd Guru.
The perverse when dying, die an evil death.
By another's (mammon's) love, they slay their soul.
They are undone by saying, "It is mine, it is mine".
They remember not the Supreme soul and are asleep in superstition.
He who dies by the Word, dies a real death.
The Guru has caused me to realise that praise and blame are the same, and I should obtain the profit in this world, uttering God's Name. Pause.
They who are bereft of the Name, malt in womb.
Vain is the advent of him who is lured by another.
Without the Name, the entire world is burning in anguish.
The prefect and True Guru, has imparted this understanding unto me.
The mercurial mind suffers many strokes.
Having lost this chance of human life, he shall find no place of rest.
He is cast into the womb life and abides in ordure,
In such an abode, the perverse person takes up his residence.
I am ever a sacrifice unto my True Guru.
Through the Guru, I merge into the Supreme Light.
By means of Immaculate Gurbani, man acquires an abode in his own home.
Nanak, he who stills his ego, is forever detached.
Asa 3rd Guru.
Lord's slave lays aside his caste.
He dedicates his body and soul unto the True Guru, and seeks his shelter.
His greatest glory is that he has God's Name in his mind.
The Beloved Lord is, ever, a succourer of his.
He alone is Lord's slave, who remains dead in life.
He deems both woe and weal as alike, and by Guru's favour is saved through God's name. Pause.
He does deeds as is the Lord's primal will.
Without the Lord's Name none is approved.
By singing God's praises the Name is implanted in the mind.
The Lord Himself gives gifts and makes no delay.
Through doubt, an apostate goes astray in the world.
Without capital, he transacts spurious business.
Without capital, merchandise is not obtained.
The erring way-ward, thus, wastes his life.
He, who serves the True Guru, become Lord's slave.
Sublime is his caste and high his reputation.
Mounting Guru's ladder the mortal becomes the most exalted of all.
Through God's Name, O Nanak! greatness is achieved.
Asa 3rd Guru.
An apostate practises nothing but falsehood.
Master's mansion, such a one, never attains.
Attached to another, she wanders in doubt.
Entangled in worldly attachments one continues coming and going.
Look! the decorations of the discarded bride.
She attaches her hear to sons, their wives, wealth, property, falsehood, temporal love, hypocrisy and sin. Pause.
She, who is pleading to her Lord is ever a happy wife.
Guru's instruction, she makes her decoration.
Her couch is pleasant and night and day she enjoys her Lord.
Meeting her Love, she ever obtains peace.
True is that good wife, whose enshrines love for the True One.
Her Spouse, she ever keeps clasped to her heart.
She beholds Him near nay, ever present.
My Master is every where fully contained.
Hereafter cast and beauty go not with the man.
As are the deeds, he has done so does he become there.
Through God's Name man becomes the highest of the high.
O Nanak, he gets absorbed in the True Lord.
Asa 3rd Guru.
The Lord's slave is died with his devotion, in the natural way,
and through Guru's fear, he is verily, absorbed in the True one.
Without the Perfect Guru, Lord's worship is not performed,
The self-willed ones lose their honour and bewail.
O my soul, repeat God's name and ever, meditated on Him.
Day and night, thou shalt ever obtain bliss, and gather the fruit, which thy heart desires. Pause.
Through the Perfect Guru, the Perfect one is attained,
and the True Name of the Lord is enshrined in the mind.
Pure becomes the mind of him who bathes in the tank of Nectar.
Being for ever pure, he is absorbed in the True Lord.
The Lord-God, he sees ever present.
By Guru's grace he finds God fully-pervading.
Wheresoever I go, I see that Lord there.
Sans the Guru, there is no other donor.
The Guru is an ocean and perfect treasure,
it is full of countless and precious rubies and jewels.
The merciful Guru is the giver of gifts.
Nanak, Guru, the forgiver, forgives all.
Asa 3rd Guru.
The Guru is an ocean. True is the reputation of the True Guru.
Through prefect good luck, the service of the Guru is performed.
He alone understands, whom the Lord Himself instructs.
By Guru's grace, man performs Lord's service.
With the jewel of gnosis complete understanding is gained.
By Guru's grace, ignorance is dispelled, man remains wakeful day and night, and beholds that True Lord. Pause.
Through Guru's instruction, worldly love and pride are burnt down.
Form the perfect Guru, man obtains true understanding.
By Guru's instruction, man realises Lord's presence within himself,
his transmigration ceases and he becomes stable and merges into the Name.
The world is subject to coming and going.
The foolish perverse person is enveloped in the darkness of mammon and worldly attractions.
He slanders others and practises immense falsehood.
He is the worm of ordure and is consumed in ordure.
Meeting the society of saints, he procures perfect understanding.
Guru's instruction implants God's devotional service in the mind.
He, who submits to Lord's will, is ever in peace,
Such a man, O Nanak, merges into the True Lord.
Asa 3rd Guru. Panchpade.
He, who dies with the Divine word, is ever in bliss.
He unites with the God-incarnate, the great True Guru.
He dies not again and comes and goes not.
Through the perfect Guru, blends he with the True Lord.
In whose primal writ is recorded the Name,
they, night and day, ever, meditate on the Name, and obtain the gift of Lord's exalted service from the Prefect Guru. Pause.
They, whom he Lord God blends with himself,
their profound condition cannot be told.
The Perfect Satguru has given the greatness,
of exalted order and I am now absorbed in God's Name.
Whatever the Lord does, that He does all by Himself.
In an instant He establishes and disestablishes.
By mere uttering, saying, shouting and preaching about God,
man is approved not, even if he tries a hundred times.
They in whose treasure is virtue, them meets the Guru.
By Guru's instruction they hear the True Gurbani.
Where the Name abides, from there pain departs.
By the jewel of gnosis, man is easily absorbed in the True Lord
No other wealth is as great as the Name.
It is received by him, unto whom the True Master grants.
By the prefect instruction the Name abides in the mind.
Nanak, imbued with the Name, man procures bliss.
Asa 3rd Guru.
Man may dance and play many musical instruments.
But as this mind is blind and deaf. For whom is this speaking and preaching then?
Within him is the fire of avarice and the wind of superstition.
The lamp of gnosis burns not, nor is the understanding attained.
Within the mind of the Guru-ward, is the light of meditation.
Recognising his ownself, he meets the Lord. Pause.
For the pious person, embracing love for God is the dance,
and the destruction of pride form within, is the beating of time.
My True Lord is Himself the Knower.
By Guru's instruction recognise thou the Creator within thee.
For the Guru-ward hearty love and affection from the devotional service.
He naturally dwells on the Guru's hymns.
The service of the pious, is the true way to that Lord.
The service and dance of the hypocrite bring sorrow.
Real worship is this that the mortal dies while alive.
By Guru's grace, such a one crosses the dreadful world-ocean.
By Guru's instruction the devotional service s approved.
Then, the reverend Lord Himself comes and abides in the mind.
When God shows mercy, He unites man with the True Guru.
Then steady becomes his devotion and he fixes his attention on God.
True is the repute of those who are imbued with the Name,
O Nanak, the mortal procures peace.
Asa Measure. Kafi. 3rd Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
By God's pleasure the True Guru is met and true understanding is obtained.
He, in whose heart the Name abides by the grace of the Guru, understands God.
My Beneficent spouse is but one. There is not another.
By Guru's favour He abides within the mind, and then everlasting peace ensues. Pause.
In this age God's Name is fearless and it is attained by contemplating over Gurbani.
Without the Name, the blind, silly and perverse person is under the power of Death's myrmidon.
The slave, who surrendering to God's will, performs service, he understands the True Lord.
God is to be praised under His command, and by submitting to His will peace ensues.
By God's pleasure, the wealth of human birth is obtained, and intellect is rendered sublime.
O Nanak, praise thou the Name and through the Guru, thou shalt be emancipated.
Asa 4th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Thou art the True Creator and my Master.
That alone happens what pleaseth Thee and I receive that what Thou givest me. Pause.
All are Thine and all meditate on Thee.
He, unto whom Thou showest mercy, obtains the jewel of Thy Name.
The pious persons obtain the Name and the self-willed lose it.
Thou Thyself separatest the mortals and thyself unitests them.
Thou art the river and all are within Thee.
Besides Thee, there is no one else.
All the organisms and being are Thine playthings.
By the God's law of separation the united one is separation, and by the law of union, the separated is united (with God).
The man whom thou causest to understand, understands Thee,
and he ever utters and repeats thine praises, O God.
He, who has served Thee, has obtained peace.
He easily gets absorbed in God's Name.
Thou Thyself art the creator and it is by thy doing that everything comes to pass.
Besides thee, there is no other second.
Thou beholdest and understandest the created creation of Thine.
Through the Guru, O slave Nanak, the Lord is revealed.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Asa Measure. 4th Guru.
Some from party with their friends, their sons and their brothers.
Some from party with their marriage relation and real son-in-law.
Some join in faction with their chiefs and headmen for selfish motives.
My partisan is God, who pervades every-where.
I have joined the faction of God and God is my mainstay.
Without God, I have no other party or faction and I sing God's numberless and manifold praises. Pause.
They, with whom party is formed, perish.
Joining false factions, men later repent.
The men who practise falsehood, remain not stable.
I have made pact with God, than whom none is more powerful.
All these factions are the extension of the love of worldly Valuables.
The fools quarrel for wealth.
They are born and they die and they lose their life game in gamble.
My faction is the Lord, who embellishes all, my this world and the next.
In the Dark age, the five thieves cause factions and contentions.
Lust, wrath, avarice, worldly love and pride have increased.
He, unto whom the Lord shows mercy, him, He cause to meet the society of saints.
I am in God's faction, who has destroyed all these factions.
By false worldly love, people sit down and form factions.
They decry other's short-comings and increase their own self-conceit.
As they sow, so shall they eat (reap).
Slave Nanak has joined the party of God and righteousness, which conquers the whole world.
Asa 4th Guru.
Continuously hearing Gurbani, the Nectar-name becomes pleasing to man's mind.
Through Gurbani, the Incomprehensible Lord is comprehended.
Through the Guru, hear God's Name, O my sisters.
The One Lord is contained in every heart and with thine mouth, recite the ambrosial hymns of the Guru. Pause.
Within my soul and body are Divine love and supreme sadness.
By the greatest good fortune, I have obtained the God-incarnate, the True Guru.
Through duality man's mind wanders after poisonous wealth.
The unfortunate one meets not the True Guru.
God Himself causes to drink the immortalising Divine Nectar.
Through the perfect Guru, O Nanak, the Lord has been obtained.
Asa 4th Guru.
Within my mind and body is the love and support of God's Name.
I meditate on the Name, O my Friends and comrades.
Remember the Name, O my friends and comrades.
Without the Name, nothing else do I have, and by the great good luck, I have received God's Name through the Guru. Pause.
Without the Name I can live not.
The very fortunate ones obtains God, through the Guru.
The mortals without the Name get soot rubbed on their faces.
Accursed, accursed is the life without Lord's Name.
God, the greatest of the great is obtained by great destiny.
Through the Guru, O Nanak, one is blessed with God's Name.
Asa 4th Guru.
I sing God's praise, and God's, praise do I utter through Gurbani.
Through the Guru, I utter and narrate God's excellences.
Pondering and contemplating over the Name, my mind is in bliss.
The True Name of the True Lord, the True Guru has implanted in me, and with relish I chant the glories of the Supreme Bliss. Pause.
The men, who are God's slaves sing God's praises.
Through great destiny, the detached Lord is attained to.
Without merit, men of wealth are filthy.
Shorn of virtue, the proud persons suffer transmigration.
The body-ocean throw up the pearls of virtues.
Nanak, through the Guru, the ocean is churned and quintessence is taken out.
Asa 4th Guru.
The Name I hear and the Name is pleasing to my mind.
By good destiny the Guru-ward obtains God.
Remember the Name, which is manifested by the Exalted Guru.
Without the Name, I have no other prop, and Lord's Name is weaved into all my breaths and morals. Pause.
Name's meditation I have heard and it is pleasing unto my mind.
He who tells me of the Name, he alone is a friend and comrade of mine.
Without the Name, the fools departs naked.
Beholding the poison of mammon, they inflame and burn to death like a moth.
The Lord Himself create, and having created, Himself destroys.
Nanak, God himself grants His Name.
Asa 4th Guru.
The Supreme Guru has propagated the Lord's vine.
It bears God's fruit which the enjoyers (God-men) relish.
Remember thou the Lord Master's Name, which contains endless waves of joy.
Repeat, repeat thou the Name and praise of God, under Guru's instruction and thus thou slay the serpent of Death's mean myrmidon. Pause.
The Lord Master has installed His devotional service in the Guru.
If the Guru is please, he bestows it on his disciple, O my brother.
He, who works in egotism knows not the way,
he acts like the elephant who after bath throws dust on his head.
if man's destiny be sublime and very high,
O Nanak, he repeats the Name of the Immaculate True Lord.
Asa 4th Guru.
My mind hungers for Lord God's Name.
Hearing the Name, my mind is satiated, O brother.
Remember the Name, O my Gursikh friends.
Utter the Name, through God's Name attain peace and by Guru's instruction, enshrine the Name in thy mind and heart. Pause.
By hearing the Name of the Name incarnate Lord, my mind is gladdened.
By reaping the Name's profit, under Guru's instruction, my soul has blossomed.
Without the Name, one goes leprous and blind through worldly love.
His doing of all the deeds is unfruitful and distressful engagement.
The very fortunate ones utter the praise of Lord God, the Master.
O Nanak, under Guru's instruction, the love for God's Name is embraced.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
4th Guru Asa Measure.
O yogi, thou strikest the catgut with thy hand, but the lute is played in vain.
Under Guru's instruction utter God's instruction utter God's praises, O yogi, and thy soul shall be dyed with Lord's love.
O yogi, teach Thine intellect Divine instruction.
The one Lord Master is pervading all the ages through and I make obeisance unto Him. Pause.
Thou singest in many measures and talkest much, but this soul of thine is only playing a play.
Thou desirest to work thy well and irrigate the land with the oxen, which have already left for jungle to graze.
By God's favour sow the Name in the body-village and God will then sprout and there shall be a verdant field.
O man, yoke thy unstable mind for an ox, to irrigate Lord's love through Guru's instruction.
Yogi's, wandering saints and all creation, O Lord, are thine and as the wisdom thou givest them, so do they walk.
O God, the Lord of slave Nanak and the Knower of hearts, goad and yoke my soul to Thyself.
Asa 4th Guru.
How long will it take some one search for anklets and cymbals and how long will some one play the rebuck?
In coming and going a moment's delay is caused and even in this momentary interval meditate I on the Name.
Within my mind such a devotion has been produced.
Without God, I cannot live even for an instant as the fish dies without water. Pause.
When will some one muster five or seven singers and when will some one raise the voice of song?
In mustering and selecting musicians an instant a moment or trice must elapse meanwhile my mind sings Lord's praise.
When some one will dance and stretch forth one's feet and when one waves one's hands.
In stretching out one's hands and feet some short delay does take place. Even till then my soul thinks of the Lord.
If some one will satisfy the people, he must know that by pleasing the people honour is not obtained.
O serf Nanak, in thy heart ever meditate thou on God, then shall every one congratulate thee.
Asa 4th Guru.
Mix with the pious society of God's saints and joining the congregation, sing God's praise.
With the light of the sparkling gem of Divine knowledge the darkness of ignorance is dispelled from the mind.
O God's slave, meditate thou on Lord God and let this be thy dancing.
I meet such saints, O my brother of the God's serfs and shampoo their feet. Pause.
Fixing thy attention on God, O my soul, night and day, repeat the Name of the Lord Master.
Thou shalt have the fruit which thou desirest and shalt feel not hunger, again.
The boundless Lord is Himself the Creator, the Lord Himself utters and causes to utter.
Good are the saints who are pleasing to Thee and whose honour Thou approvest.
Nanak is not satiated by uttering God's excellences, and the more he glorifies Him the more he is at peace.
The treasures of devotion, God has gives to His slave and the customers of virtues purchase and carry them home.
There is but one God. By True Guru's favour, He is obtained.
Asa Measure Kafi. 4th Guru.
From the very beginning death is ordained but egotism makes man bewail.
By remembering the Name, through the Guru, one becomes eternal.
Blessed is the Perfect Guru, through whom passing away is realised.
The sublime persons earn the profit of the Name and get absorbed in God. Pause.
The days of life are pre-ordained, they do come (to an end), O mother.
To-day or to-morrow one must depart as is the Primal Lord's order.
In vain is the advent of those who have forgotten the Name.
They play the game of chance in this world and lose this soul of theirs.
They who have obtained the Guru in birth and death they remain in peace.
Nanak, the true are, truly absorbed in the True Lord.
Asa 4th Guru.
Obtaining the wealth of human birth, I contemplate over the Name.
Knowing the essence, by Guru's grace, I am absorbed in the True One.
They, who have such a preordained writ, practise the Name.
The True Lord summons the true at His Mansion's gate. Pause.
Within us is the Name treasure, but it is obtained, through the Guru.
Night and day repeat the Name, and sing God's praise.
Within us are infinite commodities, but an apostate finds them not.
Through egotism, man practises pride and ruins himself.
Nanak, by his own deeds, the mortal destroys his ownself.
By Guru's instruction, the True Lord. instruction, the True Lord.
Asawari Measure. 4th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Night and day, I sing the praise of God's Name.
The True Guru has informed me of the Lord's Name and without God, I cannot live even for an instant or a moment. Pause.
I hear and contemplate upon God's praise. Without God, I cannot sustain life even for a trice.
As a swan cannot live without a tank, similarly how can God's slave live without Lord's service?
Some cherish love for duality and place it in their heart and some profess affection for worldly attachment and pride.
God's serf embraces affection for Lord's Immortal status and he (Nanak) meditates on Lord God, the Supreme Master.
Asawari 4th Guru.
Mother, O my Mother, tell me of my Beloved Lord.
Without God, I cannot live even for a moment and trice for I love Him as the camel does the creeper. Pause.
For the sake of the sight of God, the Friend, my soul has become sad and unattached.
As the black-face-bee cannot live without lotus, so I cannot live without God.
Keep me under Thine protection O Beloved Master of the Universe and fulfil my faith, O God the World-Lord.
Slave Nanak's mind is filled with bliss, when he sees God's sight even for an instant.
Asa Measure 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
He who loves mammon, him she ultimately devours.
He, who seats her comfortably, him she greatly terrifies.
Brother, friends and family beholding her, indulge in strife.
But, by Guru's grace, she has come under my control.
Seeing such a power of hers, bewitched are,
the strivers, the men of miracles, gods, super human beings and mortals. Excepting the saints, all are deceived by her deceit. Pause.
Some wander about as ascetics. But they are harassed by lust.
Some, as family men, amass wealth, but she becomes not their own.
Some who call themselves as greatly torments.
God has saved me by attaching me to the True Guru's feet.
She leads astray the penitents who practise penance.
All the scholarly Brahmans are seduced by greed.
Bewitched are the men of three qualities and bewitched is the heaven.
The True Guru has preserved me by giving his hand.
To the divine, she acts as a servant.
With clasped hands she serves him and makes the supplication.
What thou orderest that work I shall do,
and I shall not draw near the Guru-ward, says she. O slave Nanak.
Asa 5th Guru.
From my mother-in-law (mammon) my Beloved (God) has separated me.
My husband's younger brother's wife, and my husband's elder brother's wife have died of grief and sorrow.
I have given up the dependence of my husband's elder brother.
My wise and Omniscient Spouse has protected me.
Hear O people, I have obtained the essence of love.
I have killed the evil persons and destroyed my enemies. The True Guru has given me the God's Name. Pause.
Firstly, I have given up the love of pride.
Secondly, I have renounced the customs of others.
Abandoning the three qualities, I deem an evil person and a friend the same (alike).
Meeting the saintly Guru I have realised the excellences of the fourth (highest) state of mind.
In the cave of celestial poise, I have acquired a seat.
God the embodiment of lights, has played for me the celestial music.
Supreme joy I have obtained by meditating on Guru's hymns.
Imbued with my Beloved, I have become a blessed and happy wife.
Slave Nanak utters the meditation of the Lord.
He who hears and practises it, is saved.
He is born not, nor does he die. He comes and goes not.
With God, he remains blended.
Asa 5th Guru.
The bride possesses singular devotion and is amiable.
She is of peerless beauty and of perfectly good character.
The house, she dwells in, is praiseworthy.
Through the Guru, a rare one finds such a bride.
By meeting the Guru, I have obtained the Bride of pure deeds.
In worship, marriage and next world, she looks beauteous. Pause.
As long as she dwelt with her Father(Satguru),
so long did her spouse wander about very sad.
When I served and conciliated the True person,
then the Guru brought the bride into my house and then, I obtained all happiness.
She (the true disciple) is blessed with thirty-two qualities and truthful and unblemished is her progeny.
she is obedient, sagacious and beauteous.
She fulfills the wishes of the heart of her Groom the Lord.
She has soothed, in every way, her husband's younger brother's wife and her husband's elder brother's wife.
In all the family she is the noblest.
She is the counseller of her husband's younger brother and elder brother.
Blessed is the house, where-in she has appeared.
O slave Nanak, she passes her time in perfect peace.
Asa 5th Guru.
The resolve, which I make, that the mammon allows not to mature.
To ward them off, she stands near goodness and self-mortification(self-control).
She wears many guises and assumes many forms.
She allows me not to abide in home and makes me wander in different and diverse places.
She has become the mistress of the house and lest me not to have a dwelling in it
If I make an effort to abide, she grapples with me. Pause.
In the beginning she was sent by God as helper.
But she has conquered the nine continents, all the places and inter spaces.
She has spared not, even the banks of streams, the sacred shrines, Yogis and ascetics.
They, who grow weary of reading Simirtis and studying Vedas, are under its sway.
Wherever I sit, there she sits with me.
In the whole of the world she has forcibly entered.
By seeking paltry protection, I cannot save myself from her.
Say, my friend, to whom should I go to seek asylum?
Having heard of his teaching I have come to the True Guru.
The Guru has implanted God's Name within me as his instruction.
I, now, abide in my own home, and sing the praises of the Infinite Lord.
I have met my Lord, O Nanak and has become care-free.
The house is now my own and she is my mistress.
She is my hand-maid and the Guru has made me a courtier of the Lord. Pause 2nd.
Asa 5th Guru.
At first I was counselled to send a letter.
Secondly, I was advised to send two men to mediate.
The third suggestion was that some effort should be made.
Forsaking one and all, I have meditated on Thee alone, O Lord.
Naturally I am, now, exceedingly happy and care-free.
The enemies and miscreants have perished and I have obtained peace. Pause.
The True Guru has imparted instruction unto me.
My soul, body and the whole world belong to God.
whatever I do, that is due to Thy might.
Thou art my refuge and Thou art my court.
Forsaking Thee, O Lord, whom else should I go to?
There is no other second at par with Thee.
Under whose subservience should thy slave be?
The misled mammon-worshipper wanders about in wilderness.
Thy greatness cannot be narrated.
Hugging me to Thine bosom, Thou savest me wherever I be.
I, the slave, O Nanak, has entered Thine asylum.
The Lord has preserved his honour and congratulation pour in.
Asa 5th Guru.
Having wandered in foreign lands, I have come here for transactions.
I have heard, that thou O Guru, hast an incomparable and profitable commodity.
Having tied the capital of virtues in my skirt, I have brought it with me.
Seeing the jewel of Thy Name this mind of mine is fascinated.
O Banker! the dealer has come to thy door.
Show the goods, that transaction may be effected. Pause.
The sovereign Lord has sent me to the banker Guru.
Invaluable is Name jewel and invaluable the capital of merits.
Through the Guru, my gentle brother, friend and intercessor,
I have received the goods and my mind is rendered stable.
I have no fear of thieves of wind or of water.
Quietly have I purchased and quietly do I take away the merchandise of Name.
The True Name, I have earned, and so shall have no pain.
I have brought home this merchandise safe and sound.
I have made the profit (of Name) and I am happy.
Blessed is the Guru banker, the perfect bestower.
Rare is the person, who through the Guru, receives this commodity.
Profitable merchandise, Nanak has brought home.
Asa 5th Guru.
My merits and demerits have not been considered.
Nor have been my beauty, colour and decorations looked to.
I know not the way of wisdom and good conduct.
But taking me by the arm, Spouse has led me to the couch.
Hear, ye mates, my bridegroom has owned me.
Placing His hand on my forehead, he has protected me as His own. What do these ignorant people know? Pause.
My married life, now, looks beauteous.
My Groom has met me and has diagnosed all my maladies.
Within my heart's compound, is the moony glory.
Night and day, I make merry, with my Beloved.
My clothes are red like the colour of tulip.
All the ornaments and flower wreaths, round my neck, bedeck me.
Beholding my Beloved with my eyes, I have obtained all the treasures,
and shaken off the subservience of the wretch and villains.
I have attained eternal bliss and I ever make merry.
with the Name's nine treasures, I am sated in my home.
Says Nanak, when the happy wife is bedeck by her Love,
she is ever happy in her Spouse's company.
Asa 5th Guru.
O Brahman, people give thee alms and worship thee.
Thou takest from them and deniest that they give thee.
O Brahman! The door, to which thou hast to go ultimately,
is the door where thou shalt have to repent.
O brother, such Brahmans will get drowned,
as they think of doing evil to the innocent.
Within them is avarice and they wander about like mad dogs.
They slander others and carry the load of sins on their heads.
Beguiled by wealth, Brahman reflectest not on the Lord.
Because of doubt, he goes astray in many paths.
To show to the people, he wears many religious dresses.
But his mind is besieged by wickedness.
He instructs others, but understands not his ownself.
such a Brahman, can in no way be emancipated.
O silly Brahman, meditate thou on the Lord.
He watches and hears thee and abides with thee.
Says Nanak, if such good be thy fate,
renounce thy pride and cling to Guru's feet.
Asa 5th Guru.
By singing the praise of the Lord Master, my mind has become pure and distresses and diseases have left my body.
Meeting the society of saints, my mind has become happy, and no it goes not astray.
Through Guru's hymns, my burning is quenched, O my Mother.
On meeting the cool Guru, my fever of all doubts has been easily done away with. Pause.
Realising the one Lord alone, my wandering has ceased and I now abides in an eternal place.
Thine saints are the saviours of the world and seeing their sight I remain stated.
The sins of many births have been left behind, now that I have clasped the feet of the eternal saint-Guru.
My mind sing the natural melody of Lord's praise, and now death will, no, more, eat it.
The Designer of all causes, the Omnipotent and the Peace-giver is my Lord Master, the King.
Nanak lives by repeating Thy Name and Thou, O my Succourer, art with me like warp and woof.
Asa 5th Guru.
The slanderer roars and bewails.
The slanderer has forgotten the Primal Lord, the Supreme Being, and reaps the reward of his bad acts. Pause.
If there be some companion of his, taking him along, he shall go to hell.
Like the dragon, the slanderer carries immense, unnecessary Load and burns in fire.
What happens at Lord's Gate, that, Nanak says and utters unto men.
God's slaves are ever in bliss. They blossom forth by singing God's praise.
Asa 5th Guru.
When I made all the decoration,
even then, my mind was not appeased.
I may apply various perfumes to my body,
yet I find not that pleasure, equal even to a sesame.
Within my mind I have desired,
that I may live beholding my Beloved, O my Mother?
What should I do my mother when this soul of mine resets not.
The love of my darling Beloved has fascinated my soul. Pause.
Raiments, ornaments and very exquisite pleasures;
Those also, I consider to be of no account.
Honour, renown, dignity, greatness,
and obedience of the whole world,
and jewel like beauteous home are of no avail.
If I am pleasing to my Lord, then alone I shall ever be appeased.
Viands and victuals of many kinds,
very extensive merrymaking and entertainments,
domain, property as also various command,
neither appease the soul, nor extinguish the desire.
Without meeting the Lord this day passes not.
When the Lord is met, then, do I obtain all the comforts.
By searching and, I have heard this news,
that sans the society of saints, none does swim across.
He, who has good destiny recorded on his forehead, meets the True Guru.
His hope is fulfilled, and his mind is sated.
when the Lord is met, then is the thirst quenched.
Nanak has found the Lord from within his mind and body.
Asa 5th Guru. Panchpade.
Firstly, thy caste is high.
Secondly, thy lineage is honoured.
Thirdly, thy abode is beautiful.
But ugly is thy form, as thou hast self-conceit within thy mind.
O beauteous, good-featured, wiser and clever lady,
Thou hast been ensnared by excessive pride and secular attachment. Pause.
Excessively clean is thy kitchen.
Thou bathest, adorest and appliest crimson frontal mark.
With thy mouth thou utterest gnosis, but thou art destroyed by egotism.
The dog of covetousness has ruined thee in every way.
Thou wearest robes and enjoyest pleasures.
To obtain honour amongst people thou performest religious ceremonies.
Thou appliest to thy body the perfume of aloe-wood and sandal,
but the pariah wrath is thy evil companion.
Other creatures are thine water carriers.
In this world, thine is the sovereignty.
Thou hast gold, silver and rupees.
But thy lust has destroyed thy good conduct.
The soul, on whom God, the King, casts His merciful glance,
is delivered from the bondage.
Who by meeting the society of saints, obtains the Lord's Nectar,
fruitful is that body,. Says Nanak.
Thou shalt then become a happy wife endowed with all comeliness and all comfort.
Thus shalt thou be supremely beauteous and wise. Pause 2nd.
Asa 5th Guru.
He who is seen physically alive, shall assuredly die.
He who is dead in life, shall remain eternal.
They who die while alive, through such a death they live eternally.
Lord God's Name they put as medicament in their mouth and by Guru's instruction they quaff the Immortalising Necter. Pause.
The bodily earthen vessel shall definitely break.
He who is rid of three qualities dwells in his own home.
He who climbs high, falls into the nether world.
He who lies low on the ground, him death touches not.
Those who continue roaming about, they achieve nothing.
They who act up to Guru's instruction, become stable.
The soul and body are all the articles of God.
By meeting the Guru, says Nanak, they are enraptured (satisfied).
Asa 5th Guru.
Thy body-doll has been constructed with skill.
Know it for certain that it shall become dust.
Remember thy origin O thoughtless fool.
why art thou proud of this much of thyself? Pause.
Thou art a guest of three seers of corn a day.
Others goods are but a trust with thee.
Thou art ordure, bones and blood wrapped up in skin.
It is on this that thou art harbouring pride.
If thou understandest one Thing, then, alone thou shalt be pure.
Without knowing the Lord, thou shalt ever be impure.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto the Guru.
Through whom, God, the Omniscient Lord is attained.
Asa 5th Guru. Chaupade.
One moment and one day of separation to me, is equal to many days.
My soul cannot live without Him. How should I meet my Beloved?
An instant and a day, I can never pass without Him.
Great is my mind's desire to have a sight of Him. Is there any such saint as will cause me to meet my beloved? Pause.
The four watches of the day are like the four ages.
When the night comes, I think, then, that it shall never end.
The five demons have jointly separated me, from my spouse.
Wandering and wandering, I bewail and wring my hands.
Unto slave Nanak, God has shown His sight.
Realising his own self, he has obtained supreme bliss.
Asa 5th Guru.
In God's service are the richest treasures.
God's service results in having the Nectar-Name in one's mouth.
God, my comrade and helper is with me.
In pain and pleasure, whenever I remember Him, He is present. Now, how can the poor Death's Courier terrify me? Pause.
God is my mainstay and God is my might.
God is my friend, and within my mind, is God's prop.
The Lord is my capital and the Lord is my credit.
Through the Guru, I earn riches, the Lord is my Banker.
By Guru's grace, this understanding is attained.
Slave Nanak has merged into the lap of the Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
If the Lord becomes merciful, then is this soul fixed up in Him.
Serving the True Guru, I have received all the rewards.
My soul, why shouldest thou feel sad when my True Guru is perfect.
The Lord is the Grantor of boons, He is the treasure of all the comforts and His ambrosial tank is always brimful. Pause.
He, who place in his heart God's lotus feet,
unto him the Divine light is revealed and he meets, the Beloved Lord.
Meeting together the five mates sing the songs of joy,
and within him re-sounds the tune of the celestial strain.
Nanak, when the Guru is mightily pleased one meets with God, the Hari King.
Thereafter the night passes in peace and poise.
Asa 5th Guru.
Showing His mercy, God has revealed Himself unto me.
Meeting the True Guru, I have received the perfect wealth.
Such a Divine wealth, one should amass, O brother.
Fire burns it not, nor does water drown it and deserting the company of man it goes not anywhere. Pause.
It suffers not deficiency, nor is it exhausted.
Eating and expending it, the mind remains satiated.
He is the true banker, who amasses God's wealth in his home.
With this wealth the whole world is profited.
He alone receives God's wealth, who is pre-ordained to receive it.
O Serf Nanak, at the last moment the Name is the mortal's decoration.
Asa 5th Guru.
O man, just as a husbandman (land-tiller) shown his crop and cuts down,
whether unripe or ripe.
so take it for granted, that he, who is born, shall die.
Only the saint of the World-Lord becomes eternally stable. Pause.
The day shall, assuredly, be followed by night.
When the night passes, the morn shall dawn, again.
In the love of mammon, the ill-fated keep on sleeping.
By Guru's grace, a few remain wakeful.
Says Nanak, ever, sing God's praises.
So shall thy face be bright and thy heart pure.
Asa 5th Guru.
Thou hast nine valuable riches and miracles and all the treasures.
God, the Fulfiller of desires, saves the mortal in the end.
When Thou art my Beloved, what sort of hunger have I, then?
when Thou abidest within my mind, pain touches me not. Pause.
Whatever thou doest, that is acceptable to me.
True is Thy order, O True Lord.
When it pleases Thee, then do I sing Thine praises.
In Thine home, for ever and aye there is justice.
My True Master, Thou art understandable and inscrutable.
Yoked by Thee, Nanak is yoked to Thine service, O Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
The Lord is near and is the perpetual companion of man.
Lord's Omnipotence is pervading all the forms and colours.
My soul neither emaciates, nor repents and nor does it bewail.
Imperishable, Unshakable, Unapproachable and ever safe and sound is my Husband. Pause.
To whom should thy slave owe subservience?
His honour, the king Himself preserves.
The slave whom the Lord has liberated, from the caste restrictions,
under whose obligation should that slave run?
He who is dependent on none and is absolutely care-free,
O Slave Nanak! utter thou the praise of that great Lord,
Asa 5th Guru.
Forsaking God's relish, man is intoxicated with worthless relish.
The commodity is within his home and he goes out to search it.
He cannot hear the true nectareal discourse.
Attached to false scriptures, he engages in contentions. Pause.
Taking wages from the Lord, man serves another.
With such sins the mortal is enveloped.
He hides from Him, who is ever with him.
He asks of Him, again and again, the thing which is of no avail to him.
Says Nanak, my Master is merciful to the meek.
As it pleases Thee, so doest support me.
Asa 5th Guru.
God's Name is my soul, life and wealth.
Here and hereafter, it is of avail unto me.
Without God's Name all else is (useless) wanting.
By God's sight, my mind is sated and satiated. Pause.
Gurbani is the treasure of jewels of Lord's meditation.
By singing, hearing and acting up to it one is satisfied.
With the Lord's lotus feet my mind is attached.
By his pleasure, the True Guru has given me this donation.
Unto Nanak, the Guru has imparted this instruction:
Behold the Immortal Lord in every heart.
Asa 5th Guru.
Joys and merry-makings the All-pervading Lord has established.
His affair, He Himself has adjusted.
Perfect is the creation of the Perfect Lord.
His magnificence is filling and pervading all. Pause.
His Name is the treasure, whose repute is immaculate.
He Himself is the Creator and there is not any other.
All the living beings are in His hands.
The Lord is contained amongst all and is with them.
The Perfect Guru has made the perfect make.
O Nanak, the Lord's devotees are blessed with honour.
Asa 5th Guru.
In the mould of Guru's instruction, I fashion this mind of mine.
I see Guru's sight and amass God's wealth.
O sublime understanding come thou into my mind.
That I may ponder on and sing Lord's praise and exceedingly love His Name. Pause.
Through the True Name I am sated and satiated.
The dust of saints feet is my ablution at the sixty eight shrines.
I realise that the Creator alone is contained amongst all.
By meeting saints society acute becomes my understanding.
Abandoning pride, I have become the servant of all.
Unto Nanak, the great Lord has granted this boon.
Asa 5th Guru's.
My intellect is illuminated by Guru's instruction and has become perfect.
Therewith is removed my evil -intellect which kept me away from my master.
I have obtained such an understanding through the Guru that,
I have escaped whilst I was drowning in the pitch dark well, O my brother. Pause.
To cross the highly unfathomable ocean of fire,
The Guru is the ship with the mine of gems.
dark and arduous is this mammon ocean.
To cross it, the perfect Guru, has clearly shown the way.
To my credit, I have no worship, penance and argument.
O Guru Nanak, I seek but thy protection.
Asa 5th Guru. Tipade.
He, who drinks God's elixir, ever remains imbued.
All other relishes wear off in a moment.
Intoxicated with Lord's essence one is ever happy in mind.
In other revelments, anxiety befalls one.
He who drinks God's Nectar is inebriated and intoxicated.
All other pleasure are but paltry (vain) O man. Pause.
The value of Lord's ambrosia cannot be told.
Lord's ambrosia is contained in the saints shop.
with lacs and millions of rupees, no one can receive it.
He, who is destined to obtain it, him alone the Guru gives.
By tasting it, Nanak has become wonder-struck.
Through the Guru, Nanak has obtained its relish.
Here and hereafter, leaving it, Nanak goes no where else.
Nanak has become enamoured of God's essence.
Asa 5th Guru.
If the bride leaves and obliterates her lust, wrath, avarice, worldly love, evil-intellect, self-willfulness,
and by becoming humble serves her Lord, then does she become dear to her beloved's heart.
Hear, o beauty, by saint Guru's hymns thou shalt be saved.
Thy pain, hunger and doubt shall vanish and thou, O lady, with joyous heart, shalt obtain peace. Pause.
By washing Guru feet and serving him, the soul becomes pure and the thirst for sins is quenched.
If thou become the hand maiden of God's slave's then shalt thou attain honour in his court.
This is the right conduct, and this is the correct daily routine that thou obeyest Lord's will, This is thy worship too.
He who practises this spell, O Nanak, swims across the dreadful world ocean.
Asa 5th Guru. Dupade.
This human body has come to thy hand.
This is thy chance to meet the Lord of the world.
Other affairs are of no avail to thee.
Joining the society of saints, contemplate over the name alone.
Make effort for crossing the terrible world ocean.
In the love of worldliness, the human life is passing away in vain. Pause.
I have not practised meditation, arduous toil, self-restraint and faith.
I have not served the saints and have not recognised God, the king.
Says Nanak, mean are mine deeds.
Preserve thou the honour of Thine shelter seeker, O my master.
Asa 5th Guru.
Without thee, O Lord! I have no other second. thou alone art in my mind.
Thou O Lord! art my friend and comrade. Therefore why should my soul be afraid?
Thou art my refuge and Thou art my hope.
Sitting, standing, sleeping, waking, breathing or eating, may I not forget Thee, O Lord! Pause.
Protect, protect me O Lord! I have entered thin sanctuary. Dreadful is the ocean of fire.
The true Guru (God) is the giver of peace to Nanak. I am thy child, O the world Cherisher.
Asa 5th Guru.
The Lord God has saved me, his slave.
My mind is reconciled to the beloved, and my fever has poisoned itself to death. Pause.
Cold and heat touch me not, when I sing the praise of the Lord's Name.
By seeking the protection of Lord's lotus feet, My mind is not affected by the mammon with.
By the saint grace, the Lord has been merciful to me and he Himself has become my Helper.
Nanak, ever sings God, the treasury of excellences and thus wards off doubt and pain.
Asa 5th Guru.
I have taken the medicine of God's Name.
I have obtained peace and seat of my pain is removed.
By perfect Guru's instruction, mind's fever has left me.
I have become happy and sorrows have all disappeared. Pause.
All the living beings obtain peace,
by meditating on the supreme Lord, in their mind, O Nanak.
Asa 5th Guru.
The time (of death and disease) which man desires not arrives.
Without God's order, how can man understand, however much he may be instructed?
By water, fire, or the earth, the body is consumed.
But the soul is neither young nor old, O my brother. Pause.
Slave Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the saints.
By Guru's grace, he has shaken off the fear of death.
Asa 5th Guru.
Man's soul is illumined for ever,
by joining the society of saints, and he obtain a dwelling at God s feet.
O my soul, daily repeat the Name of the omnipresent Lord.
My soul, by this thou shalt always obtain coolness, tranquility and peace, and all thine sins shall depart. Pause.
Says Nanak, he, who is of perfect good destiny,
on meeting the True Guru, obtains the perfect supreme Lord.
Thirty four of second house.
Asa 5th Guru.
She, who has God, the Lord master, as her friend,
she suffers not pain and becomes not miserable, again. Pause.
Showing his mercy, the Lord unites her with His feet,
and she then attains celestial peace and joy and is ever comfortable.
In the company of the saints-she sings the praises of God and thus, attain a weighty personality.
By meditating on God, O Nanak, she becomes invaluable.
Asa 5th Guru.
Lust, wrath, conceit of wealth and jealousy, all these I have lost in the game of gamble.
Chastity, contentment, compassion, faith and truthfulness, these I have admitted into my home.
So all the load of my birth and death is removed.
By joining the saints guild, my soul is rendered pure, the perfect Guru has saved me in an instant. Pause.
My mind has become the dust of all and to me every one seems to be my sweet friend.
My Lord is contained among all. He gives gift to all the beings and preserves them.
He is alone, he is but one and from the one is the entire creation.
Remembering, remembering the Lord, all have become pious persons and by contemplating over the one Name many have been saved.
The Lord of the universe is deep profound and infinite and there is no limit to his this or that end.
By thy grace, O Lord Nanak sings Thy praise and by meditating and pondering on Thee he makes an obeisance unto Thee.
Asa 5th Guru.
Thou O Lord, art infinite, immortal and Inapprehensible and all this is Thy creation.
What cleverness can we, the mortals play, when everything is contained in Thee?
My True Guru, the holder of the world play, preserve Thy child.
Ever grant me good sense to sing Thine praise, O my Inaccessible and boundless Lord. Pause.
As a mortal is in the womb of his mother but there he is preserved with the names prop,
and he makes merry, because with every breath, remembers God and the belly's fire touches him not.
Other's wealth, other's woman and slander of others, forsake thou thy craving for these.
Having the main-stay of thee perfect Guru, adore thou the lotus feet of God in Thy mind.
The houses, mansions and palaces which thou beholdest, nothing of these shall go with Thee.
As long as thou livest in this dark age, O servant Nanak, remember thou God's name.
Asa 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
Empire, property, youth, home, fame and handsome prime of life.
Great wealth, elephants, horses and rubies purchased with lacs of rupees.
Hereafter, these shall be of no avail in God's court and the proud must depart leaving them behind.
Why apply thou thy mind to any, but the one Lord?
Standing, sitting, sleeping and walking, ever and ever, meditate thou on God. Pause.
One may have the most wonderous and beautiful arenas and win all the disputes in the battle field.
With his mouth he may thus barks out, "I can kiIl, I can bind and release any one".
When the order of the Transcendent Lord comes, he leaves off all and departs one day.
The mortal performs rituals and righteous deeds in various ways, but knows not God, the Doer.
He imparts instruction, but himself practises not. He realises not the quintessence of the Name.
Naked he came and naked he shall depart. He is like an elephant, throwing dust on himself.
Saints, intimates and friends, hear me all. False is this world.
Continually speaking of their selfhood, men are drowned. The fools pine away and die.
On meeting the Guru, Nanak has meditated on the Lord's. Name. Through the True Name emancipation is obtained.
Asa Measure 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The entire world, blinded by worldly affairs, is asleep in doubt. Only some rare servant of God is awake.
Man is intoxicated with the great mammon, which is dearer to him than his sweet life. Few are they who forsake her.
Beauteous are Lord's lotus feet and the instruction of God's Saints. Rare is the pious person who is attached to them.
Nanak, in the Society of saints the love for Divine Knowledge is awakened. On the very fortunate, is the God's grace.
There is but one God. By the grace of the True Guru, He is obtained.
Asa Measure. 5th Guru.
Whatever pleases Thee, 0 Lord, That I accept. That alone is the supreme bliss for my mind.
Thou art the Doer of deeds, Omnipotent and Infinite. Without Thee, 0 Lord, there is not another.
Thine slaves sing Thy praises with love and affection.
For Thine slaves, that alone is the noblest advice, resolve and wisdom, which Thou doest or causeth to be done. Pause.
Nectar is Thy Name, O my Beloved. In the society of saints I have attained its relish.
The mortals, who sing the praise of God, the Treasure of peace, become perfect and remains sated and satiated.
He, who has Thy support, 0 Lord; him anxiety touches not.
He, on whom Thou showerest Thy benediction; he is the Sublime and Fortunate banker.
The doubts, worldly attachments and frauds are all gone since I had a vision of Thee.
Nanak deals only in the True Name and he is absorbed in the love of God's Name.
Asa 5th Guru.
The slanderer washes the filth of many births of others and reaps the fruit of his own acts.
He has no peace here and no room in God's court. He is tormented in the city of death.
The calumniator loses his life in vain.
He cannot succeed in anything and hereafter obtains not a place. Pause.
Such is the fate of the wretched slander. What can the poor creature do?
He is ruined there where none can protect him. With whom should he lodge a complaint.
For the calumniator, there is no salvation, anywhere and such is the will of the Lord.
The more the saints are slandered, the more the peace they enjoy.
The saints have thine support, O Lord and to the saints thou art the succourer.
Says Nanak, the saints are saved by God, but he consigns the calumniators to the flood
Asa 5th Guru.
From without, man washes his body, but from within his mind remains filthy, hence he loses his both the places.
Here, he is engrossed in lust, wrath and worldly love and here after, he shall weep drawing deep sighs.
Different is the way to the meditation of the World-Lord.
By destroying the snake-hole, the snake dies not, the deaf man hears not God's name. Pause.
Ostensibly he abandons the worldly affairs, but he knows the worth of devotion.
He begins to find fault with the Vedas and Shashtras and knows not the real meaning of union with God.
He stands exposed like a counterfeit coin, when viewed by Lord, the Assayer.
The Knower of hearts knows everything; from him, how can we hide anything?
Falsehood, crookedness and fraud are without foundation and crumble down instantly.
Verily, verily, verily Nanak utters. Within thy mind see and examine it.
Asa 5th Guru.
By making an effort to dance for stilling self-conceit, the mind becomes pure.
The five evil passions, he keeps under his control, and in his mind, he enshrines the one Lord.
Thy slave dances and sings Thine excellences.
He plays upon the rebeck tambourine, cymbals and anklets and thus he hears the divine music. Pause.
At first, instructs he his own mind and afterwards pleases others.
Meditates and contemplates he on Lord's Name in his mind and with his mouth he preaches it to all others.
He meets the saints, washes their feet and the dust of saints feet he applies to his body
His soul and body he surrenders, and places before the Guru and obtains the True wealth.
Whoever hears and beholds the Guru with faith, his pain of birth and death flees.
Such a dance nullifies (dispels) hell. O Nanak the Sikh resigned to Guru's will, ever remains wakeful.
Asa 5th Guru.
A low pariah woman become a high caste lady, and a sweepress is rendered sublime
The flame of unsated desire for the wealth of the under-world and the sky is extinguished and destroyed.
The cat of the house is now, differently instructed and it is terrified on seeing the mouse.
The Guru has given the tiger into the power of the sheep, and the dog, now, eats grass. Pause.
{Without pillars the thatched roof is supported and the homeless fellow has found a home.
Without the setter the jewel has been set, and a wonderful precious stone is studded.
Through clamour, the beggar succeeds not, but by silence he obtains justice.
The dead sit on the costly carpets and what is seen with the eyes shall quickly vanish.
Ignorant is he, who says he knows. The Knower remains not obscure.
Says Nanak, the Guru has given me nectar to drink and saturated with the love of Lord I am now elated.
Asa 5th Guru.
The Guru has cut of my fetters, overlooked my shortfalls and there by honoured his creed.
He has become merciful to me like mother and father, and has cherished me like his own child.
The Lord Incarnate Guru preserves his disciples.
Casting his kind glance, he rescues them from the very terrible world ocean. Pause.
Meditating on him, we escape from deaths courier and obtain peace here and hereafter.
Breathing and eating, with thy tongue, utter and repeat thou God's Name, and ever, ever sing his praise.
By devotional service, supreme status is obtained and in the society of saints the sorrow flee.
With the wealth of God's pure Name in purse, the man is neither worn off, nor he dies, and nor is he stricken with fear.
Lord, the saviour of man here and hereafter, becomes his helper at the last moment.
The Lord is my very life, friend, well-wisher and wealth, Nanak, says: I am ever, a sacrifice unto him.
Asa 5th Guru.
When thou art my Lord, then what fear is there and whom should I praise, but Thee?
When I own only Thee. I own everything, then and there is none but Thee.
O father, I have seen that the world is poison.
Preserve me, O Lord! of the universe. Thy Name is my support. Pause.
Thou knowest the entire state of my mind to whom else should I go to tell and narrate it.
Without the name, the whole world is gone mad. By obtaining the Name, it gathers peace.
What shall I say? To whom should I tell my condition? What I want to say, I say it to the reverend Lord.
What thou hast done, prevails, and ever and ever my hope is in Thee.
If thou grantest greatness, then, it is Thine greatness, here and there I contemplate on Thee.
The Lord of Nanak is ever the peace giver and my might is only Thine Name.
Asa 5th Guru.
Nectar is Thine Name, My master this great elixir Thy slave has quaffed.
The fearful load of the sins of many births has vanished and the doubt of duality is also gone.
I live by seeing thy sight, O Lord.
By hearing Thy Gurbani, O my True Guru, my soul and body are rendered cool. Pause.
By thine grace, I have joined the society of saints and this deed Thou Thyself hast done.
I have, firmly grasped Thine, feet, O Lord, The poison of mammon is easily neutralised.
The treasure of peace is Thine Name, O Lord, and this eternal spell I have received from the Guru.
Showing his mercy, the True Guru, has given it to me and my suffering, burning and enmity are annulled.
Blessed is the attainment of human body, by virtue of which my Lord has blended me with himself.
O Nanak (says), that blest, in the dark age, is the saints guild, where-in Lord's praise is sung. Lord's Name is the prop of my soul.
Asa 5th Guru.
Everything is pre-arranged. What more can be known through deliberation?
His erring child, the fortunate transcendent Lord has pardoned.
My true Guru is ever merciful he has saved me, the meek one.
He has cured me of my ailment by pouring the ambrosial Name of God into my mouth, and I have obtained the supreme bliss. Pause.
Millions of my sins, he has washed off, my fetters are cut and I am emancipated.
Taking me by the arm, the Guru has pulled me out of the very terrible blind well.
I have become fearless, effaced are all my fears. the saviour has saved me.
Such is Thine munificence, O my Lord, that all affairs of mine are adjusted.
My soul has met Lord, the treasure of excellences.
By taking His refuge O Nanak, I have become comfortable.
Asa 5th Guru.
When I forget Thee, then every one becomes my enemy, and when I remember Thee, then serve me they all.
I know not any other, but Thee, O True, Invisible and inscrutable Lord.
When I think of Thee, then, I find Thee, always merciful. What can the poor people do unto me?
Say, whom should I call bad or good, as all the beings are Thine. Pause.
Thou art my shelter, thou art my support and by giving Thy hard, thou has protected me.
The man, on whom is Thy grace, him no suffering can swallow.
That alone is peace and that alone is greatness, which is pleasing to the mind of the reverend Lord.
Thou art wise, thou art ever compassionate. By obtaining Thy Name, I make merry.
Before Thee is my supplication. My soul and body are all Thine.
O Nanak, say all greatness is Thine. No one knows my Name even.
Asa 5th Guru.
Show mercy, O Lord God, the Knower of hearts, that through the society of saints. I may obtain Thee.
If by opening the door, the Lord shows His sight, the mortal is not born again.
By meeting my beloved Lord, all my pain is stilled.
I swim across in the association of those, who remember the supreme Lord in their heart. Pause.
The world is like a great wilderness and ocean of fire, wherein the mortals abide in weal and woe.
By meeting the True Guru, man becomes Pure and, with his tongue, repeats the ambrosial Name of God.
Man preserves His body and wealth and makes everything his own, and with such subtle bonds he is bound.
By Guru's grace, the man is delivered of bondage and meditates on the Lord masters Name.
The saviour Lord saves those, who are pleasing to their master.
O munificent master, the soul and body are all Thine. O Nanak say I am ever, a sacrifice unto Thee.
Asa 5th Guru.
Thou hast escaped worldly love, impurity and slumber but, by whose favour has it happened?
The great enticer, mammon, affects Thee not. Whither has gone thy sloth? Pause.
By what means hast thou found deliverance from the oppressive lust, wrath and self-conceit?
(By this mammon) the godly men, deities, demons of three qualities and the entire world have been plundered.
The forest fire has burnt down much grass. Some rare plant has escaped green.
So powerful is the Lord, that I cannot describe him. His praise, one cannot utter.
In the chamber of the lamp- black, thou hast not gone black but thou hast assumed the pure colour.
The great mantra of the Guru (God's Name) has secured dwelling in my mind and I have heard the wondrous Name.
Showering his benediction, the Lord has looked on me with favour and attached me to his feet.
Through love-worship, O Nanak, I have obtained peace in the congregation of saints and absorbed in the Lord.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace he is obtained.
Asa Measure 5th Guru.
The red gown looks beautiful on thy body.
When thou became pleasing to the Lord, then, is His heart bewitched.
What has given thee this red bloom?
Whose love has rendered thee tulip-crimsons. Pause.
Thou art beautiful and thou the happy wife.
In thy home is the beloved and in thy home is good fortune.
Thou art chaste and thou the most distinguished.
Thou art pleasing to thy beloved and thou possesseth superior understanding.
I am pleasing to my darling, therefore I have assumed tulip-red dye.
Say Nanak that the Lord has looked on me with a favouring glance.
Listen thou, O my mate, this is the only toil of mine.
The Lord himself is the Decker and Adorner. Pause second.
Asa 5th Guru.
when thou wert distant, I suffered much pain.
Now, from Lord s presence, I have received the instruction of the name.
Gone is the up-braiding of my friends and mates.
My doubt is dispelled and the Guru has united me with my beloved. Pause.
My beloved, drawing near me, has seaten me on the couch,
and I have escaped the people's subservience.
In my mansion (heart) is the light of God's Name.
My spouse is Joyful and sportive.
Through the good destiny, recorded on my brow, my groom has come home to me.
Slave Nanak has obtained lasting wedded life.
Asa 5th Guru.
With the True Name, my soul is attached.
With people I have but artificial dealing.
My ties are but external and I am happy with all.
Like lotus in water, I live separate from them. Pause.
By words of mouth I talk with all.
But my Lord, I keep close to my heart.
Though, I appear to be very terrible,
but my mind is the dust of all men's feet.
This serf, O Nanak, has found the perfect Guru.
Within and without, who has shown me the one Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
In the vigour of youth, man enjoys or has revelments.
But without the Name, he mingles with dust.
He may wear ear-rings and fine clothes,
and have comfortable couch of which he may be proud in his mind. Pause.
He may have elephants to ride and gold umbrellas over his head.
But without God's meditation, he is buried beneath the earth.
He may enjoy many women of exquisite beauty.
But without the elixir of God, all the relishes are insipid.
Deluded by mammon, the mortal is led into sin and evil.
I, O Nanak, has sought the protection of the omnipotent, compassionate Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
There is a garden, wherein are planted so many plants.
they bear the Nectarean name as fruit.
Think of such a doctrine, O divine,
by which thou may obtain the status of salvation.
All around the garden, there are pools of poison and within it is the Nectar, O brother. Pause.
There is but one gardener to irrigate.
He takes care of every leaf and branch.
He brings all kinds of plants and implants them, there.
They all bear fruit, none is without the fruit.
He, who receives the Nectarean fruit of the Name from the Guru,
O slave Nanak, he crosses over the world's ocean.
Asa 5th Guru.
The royal pomp and show Thy name has made.
I attain to yoga by singing thine praises.
In Thy shelter, I obtain all the comforts.
The True Guru has removed the curtains of doubt. Pause.
Understanding the Lord's will I enjoy pleasure and dainties.
by serving the True Guru, I obtain the supreme bliss.
He who recognises Thee, is approved as a house-holder and an ascetic.
He, who is imbued with the Name is an anchorite.
He who has obtained the Name treasure,
Says Nanak, brimful is the store-house of him.
Asa 5th Guru.
If I go to places of pilgrimage, then, I see men indulging in pride.
If I inquire of Brahmans (scholars), then I find them imbued with mammon.
O friend, show me that place,
where the praises of the Lord God, are ever sung. Pause.
The Shashtras and Vedas dilate on sin and virtue,
they describe that man, again and again, enters hell and heaven.
In the house-holder s life there is anxiety and in the hermits life pride.
The performance of rituals is an entanglement for the soul.
He, who by Lord grace has his mind under control,
O Nanak, crosses the mammon s ocean through Guru s instruction.
In the society of saints sing the praise of God.
This place is found from the Guru. Pause Second.
Asa 5th Guru.
Within my home there is peace and peace prevails outside, too.
By remembering God all the sorrows (pains) are annulled.
I obtain all the comforts, when thou comest in my mind.
That man alone repeats the Name who is pleasing to Thee. Pause.
My body and mind are cooled by remembering Thy Name.
By Lord God's meditation, the abode of pain is demolished.
He, who understands God's will, is approved.
The True Name is (such a man's) insignia.
The Perfect Guru has implanted in me the Lord's Name.
Says Nanak, my mind has attained peace.
Asa 5th Guru.
Whither Thou sendest me thither I go.
Whatever Thou givest me, in that I find peace.
I am ever the slave of the world Preserver and the Lord of the Universe.
By Thine grace, I remain sated and satiated. Pause.
What Thou givest me, that I wear and eat.
By Thy favour, O Lord, I pass my life in peace.
Within my mind and body, I remember Thee.
I deem none at par with Thee.
Says Nanak, ever, do I dwell on Thee, like this.
The Mortal is emancipated by clinging to the saints feet.
Asa 5th Guru.
Whether standing, sitting or sleeping, meditate thou on the Lord.
Walking on the way, sing thou the praise of the Lord Master.
With thine ears hear the ambrosial Divine discourse.
By listening to which, thy heart shall be glad, and all the troubles and ailments shall depart from the mind. Pause.
Engaged in work and affair, on the way and quay, remember thou the Lord.
By Guru's grace, drink thou the Lord's elixir.
The Man, who day and night sings God's praise,
goes not the way of Death's courier.
He who forgets not God, throughout the eight watches,
emancipation is attained by falling at the feet of him, O Nanak!
Asa 5th Guru.
By His remembrance, man abides in peace,
obtains salvation and has his troubles ended.
Sing Lord's praise and revel in joy.
Ever, ever propitiate thou thy True Guru. Pause.
Act up to the true Gurbani of the True Guru.
Sit in thy home and obtain thy ever-stable Lord.
Harbour not evil to another in thy mind,
then, O brother and friend, trouble shall not befall thee.
God's Name is the sorcery and spell, which the Guru has given me.
Night and day, Nanak knows of this pleasure alone.
Asa 5th Guru.
The menial, whom no body knows,
by repeating the Name he is honoured in four directions.
I ask for Thine sight. Grant it to me, O My Beloved.
Who and which have not been saved by Thy service? Pause.
He whom no one draws near,
The whole world washes the dirt of the feet of him.
The mortal who is of no avail to any one,
his name is remembered by the saints grace.
In the guild of saints, the sleeping soul awakens.
Then, O Nanak, the Lord seems sweet.
Asa 5th Guru.
With mine eyes, I behold but one Lord.
Ever, ever I meditate on God's Name.
I sing the praise of the All-pervading Lord.
By saints greatness I, in the saints congregation utter the Name of Lord God. Pause.
On whose thread all the things are strung,
He, the Lord, is contained in all the hearts.
Evolution and destruction, He, the Lord, does in a moment.
The Absolute Lord Himself remains detached.
The searcher of Hearts is the Designer of causes.
Nanak's Lord ever makes merry.
Asa 5th Guru.
My rounds in millions of births have ceased.
I have won and not lost this rarely procurable human body.
My sins have been annulled, and gone are my sufferings and agonies.
Pure I have become with the dust of saints feet. Pause.
Lord's saint are potent to save.
Meet they him, who is predestined to meet them.
Happy is my mind, the Guru has given me the spell of Lord's Name.
My desire is extinguished, and my soul has become constant.
The Name's wealth is my nine treasure and miraculous powers.
From the Guru, O Nanak, I have obtained understanding.
Asa 5th Guru.
My thirst and darkness of ignorance are removed.
By saints service, many sins are obliterated.
I have attained celestial peace and immense joy.
By Guru's service, my mind has become immaculate and I have heard the Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord's Name. Pause.
The foolish shamelessness of my soul is gone.
Lord's will has become sweet unto me.
I have grasped the feet of the Perfect Guru,
and the sins of myriads of births of mind, have been washed off.
This jewel like life of mine has become fruitful.
Says Nanak, the Lord has shown mercy unto me.
Asa 5thGuru.
Ever, ever, I think of the True Guru,
and the Guru's feet I brush with my head's hair.
Be wakeful, O my awaking soul.
Without God, nothing shall be of avail unto Thee, and false is the worldly attachment and vain the worldly involvements. Pause.
Embrace through the love for Guru's hymns.
If the Guru becomes merciful, then is the pain destroyed.
Without the Guru, there is no other place or rest.
The Guru is giver, and the Guru bestows the Name.
The Guru himself is the transcendent Lord and the supreme master.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, O Nanak meditate thou on the Guru.
Asa 5th Guru.
The Lord himself is the tree and its extended branches.
His own crop, He himself preserve.
Where ever I behold, I behold that Lord alone.
Among all the hearts, he himself is contained. Pause.
He himself is the sun and the expanse of its rays.
He is concealed and He is apparent.
Attached and above attachments, are the Names, He is described with.
And in him -the unique Lord both converge on the single place.
Says Nanak, the Guru has dispelled my doubt and dread.
God, the embodiment of bliss, I, now, perceive everywhere with my eyes.
Asa 5th Guru.
I know no argumentation and wisdom.
Day and night I repeat Thy Name, O Lord.
I am meritless and virtue I have none.
He, the Lord is the doer and the prompter. Pause.
I am foolish, stupid, ignorant and thoughtless,
thy Name is my mind's only hope.
I have practised not recitation of religious books, penance, self mortification and rituals,
but have only remembered Lord's Name in my mind.
I know nothing. Poor is my wisdom.
Supplicates Nanak; Thou, O Lord, art my shelter.
Asa 5th Guru.
These two words, God, God make my rosary.
By continuously telling this rosary, the Lord becomes merciful unto me, the poor.
My supplication, I make unto the True Guru.
Mercifully keep me under thy protection, and give me the rosary of God's Name. Pause.
He, who wears the rosary of God's Name in his heart,
is freed from the pain of birth and death.
He who remembers the Lord God in his mind,
and utters him with his mouth, that man never wavers here and hereafter.
Says Nanak, he who is absorbed in the Name,
with him goes the Lord's rosary into the next world.
Asa 5th Guru.
He, to whom belongs everything, to him belong thou. O man.
To such a man, no filth, ever, attaches.
God's slave is ever emancipated.
Whatever the Lord does that is pleasing to his serf and very pure is the way of life of Lord serf. Pause.
He, who renouncing everything, has entered God's sanctuary,
how can mammon cling to that man?
He, within whose mind is the Name treasure,
for him there is no anxiety even in dream.
Says Nanak, I have obtained the perfect Guru.
My doubt and worldly attachment are all obliterated.
Asa 5th Guru.
When my master is mightily pleased with me,
then say, how can doubt and sorrow draw near me?
I live my constantly hearing of thy glory.
O Lord, save Thou me, the meritless one. Pause.
By repeating the Name, given by the True Guru, I have obtained the reward.
My anguish is effaced and care forgotten.
He is true and true is his repute.
Remember and meditate thou on him and keep him strung in thy heart.
Says Nanak, what deed of him is left to be done,
within whose mind abides the Lord's Name?
Asa 5th Guru.
By lust, wrath and pride, the mortals are ruined.
By God's meditation, the slaves of God are redeemed.
Intoxicated with the wine of worldliness the mortals are asleep.
Imbued with the meditation of God, the saints remain awake. Pause.
Worldly attachment and doubt, make man wander through many births.
Immortal are Lord's devotees, who contemplate over his feet.
He, who is attached to his home, is shut up in the blind well.
Emancipated are the saints, who know God to be near.
Says Nanak, he who is under the Lord's protection,
he obtain peace and salvation hereafter.
Asa 5th Guru.
Thou art my waves of water and I a fish of Thine.
Thou art my Lord and I, a beggar at thy gate.
Thou art my creator and I am a servant of Thine.
I have grasped Thy protection, O the master of profound excellences. Pause.
Thou art my life and thy my support.
On beholding Thee, my heart-lotus blooms.
Thou art my salvation and honour and Thou art my strength.
Thou art Omnipotent, Thou art my strength.
That night and day, I may repeat the Name, the treasure of excellences,
this alone is Nanak's supplication before the Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
The weeper practises falsehood.
He laugh in glee, while mourning for others.
Some one has died, and in the house of some there is singing.
One bewails and another bursts out laughing. Pause.
From childhood to old age,
the mortal attains not his goal and regrets in the end.
The world is subject to three dispositions.
The mortal therefore, again and again enters hells and heaven.
Says Nanak, whom the Lord has applied to His Name,
that man's life is fruitful and he is acceptable.
Asa 5th Guru.
The bride is asleep and knows not the news of her Lord.
When the day breaks, then does she grieve.
By love for thy beloved, thou shalt easily imbibe joy in thy heart, O bride.
When there is longing in thee to meet thy Lord, then why shouldest thou make delay? Pause.
Her groom came and poured nectar her hand.
But it slipped and fell on the ground.
She is laden with licentiousness, worldly love and pride.
The fault, therefore, lies not with Lord, the creator.
In the congregation of saints the darkness of doubt is dispelled.
Nanak, then does the creator blend her with Himself.
Asa 5th Guru.
In the beloved's lotus feet lies my hope.
The poor myrmidons of death have run away from me.
By Thine grace, thou O Lord, art remembered.
Contemplating on the Lord's Name, all the diseases are destroyed. Pause.
Death's courier gives much pain to other,
but he cannot come near Thy slave, O Lord.
My soul is thirsty for thy vision,
absorbed in Thy love, I abide in equipoise and bliss.
Hear Thou, O Lord the supplication of Nanak.
Into his mind and heart, infuse Thy Name alone.
Asa 5th Guru.
My soul is sated and ended are my involvements.
My Lord have become merciful.
Everything has turned out well by the grace of saints.
I have met Him, the Fearless Master, whose house is brimful with all the things. Pause.
The kind saint has implanted the Name in me.
My most dreadful desire has ended.
My master has given me a gift,
wherewith fire of my mind is extinguished and it is at peace.
My search is over, and my soul is absorbed is celestial bliss.
Nanak has obtained the treasure of God's Name.
Asa 5th Guru.
They who are on intimate terms with the Lord,
they remain satiated with the Name's perfect food.
God's saints run short of nothing.
They have plenty to eat, spend, enjoy and give. Pause.
He whose master is the unfathomable Lord of the World,
how long can one stand up to him.
Whom serve the eighteen miraculous powers,
for a moment's glance cling thou to his feet.
He unto whom Thou showest Thy mercy,
O Lord, Says Nanak, he feels not deficiency of anything.
Asa 5th Guru.
When, then I meditated on my True Guru,
did my mind attain the supreme peace.
My account is effaced and dispelled is my doubt.
Imbued with the name his slave has become a man of good fortune. Pause.
When I remembered my Lord,
then was my fear dispelled, O my friend.
When I grasped Thy protection, O Lord,
then was my desire fulfilled.
Beholding thine wonderous plays, my soul acquires patience.
Servant Nanak, has Thy reliance, O my Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
Night and day, the mouse gnaws the rope. (of life's span)
Falling into the well, the mortal is eating the sweets. (of passions)
In thinking and reflecting the (life's) night passes away.
Thinking of the multifarious pleasure of the world, man reflects not on God, the sustainer of earth. Pause.
Deeming the tree's shade as immovable, man builds his home beneath it.
Death's noose is around his neck and mammon has aimed her arrow at him.
The sandy shore has fallen into the mouth of the waves.
That place, the fool deems as permanent.
In the guild of saints, I have meditated on the sovereign Lord.
Nanak lives by singing God's praises.
Asa 5th Guru. Dutuke.
O body, with the soul, thou art engaged in frolics.
in her company thou comest in contact with every one.
In her company every one desires thee.
Without her, none wishes to see thee.
Where is that detached soul, now, contained?
Without her, thou art is in miserable plight, O body. Pause.
With it thou wert the mistress in the house.
With it thou didst become distinguished.
With it thou wert fondled.
Without it thou hast been left to roll in dust.
In her company thou hast honour and respect.
In her company thou hast relation with the world.
In her company, thou were bedecked in all the ways.
Without her, thou hast become dust.
The detached soul neither dies nor is born.
It acts subject to Lord's command.
O Nanak, having fashioned the body, the Lord unites and separates the soul from it.
His omnipotence the Lord Himself knows.
Asa 5th Guru.
He (God) dies not, nor do I fear death.
He perishes not, nor do I grieve.
He is not poor, nor am I hungry.
Neither He is in pain, nor do I suffer agony.
There is no other destroyer but God.
My very life is God, the giver of life to me. Pause.
He has no entanglements, nor am I in bondage.
Neither He has any worldly occupation, nor do I have any engagements.
Neither he has impurity, nor have I any filth.
He is in ecstasy, then I am, ever happy.
He has no anxiety, nor do I have any care.
He has no defilement, nor have I pollution.
He feels no hunger, nor do I have any thirst.
When he is immaculate, then do I match him.
I am nothing, He alone is all-in-all.
In the past and the future he alone is.
Nanak, the Guru has dispelled my doubts and demerits.
He and I, uniting together, have assumed identical colour.
Asa 5th Guru.
In various ways, render thou service unto the Lord.
Place thou before him thy life, soul and wealth.
Forsaking thy ego carry water and wave fan.
Many times, be thou a sacrifice unto Him.
She alone is the happy wife, who is pleasing to her Lord.
In her society do I move, O my mother. Pause.
I am the water-carrier of the handmaids.
The dust of their feet, I cherish in my mind.
If good destiny be recorded on my brow, then do I obtain their society.
Through his pleasure, the spouse has met me.
Unto Him I surrender all the meditation austerity and religious rites.
To him I offer all spiritual duties and incense-burning.
Having renounced ego and secular love, I become the dust of the feet of the saints.
In their company, I behold my Lord, with my eyes.
Every moment I, thus, ponder on the Lord.
Days and night, like this, I perform God's service.
the world-Cherisher and the master of the universe, becomes merciful,
and forgives the mortal in the society of saints, O Nanak!
Asa 5th Guru.
By Lord's love, eternal peace is obtained.
By Lord's love agony touches man not.
By Lord's love filth of egotism is washed away.
By Lord's love, man becomes immaculate for ever.
Listen O friend, bear thou such love and affection to God,
who is the support of soul, life and every heart. Pause.
By Lord's love, are obtained all the treasures.
By Lord's Name the pure Name enters the mind.
Ever embellished is the love of the Lord.
By Lord's love all the anxiety is erased.
By Lord's love, man crosses this terrible world ocean.
By Lord's love one fears not death.
By Lord's love all are saved.
The love of Lord, abides with the mortal.
Of himself man is neither united, nor does he go astray.
He to whom the master merciful, joins are congregation of the righteous.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto Thee.
Thou art the support and strength of the saints, O Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
Becoming a king, the man exercises command,
and by committing oppression, he acquires wealth.
Amassing and amassing, he fills bags therewith.
Snatching his wealth from him, the Lord gives it to another.
The body is an unbaked vessel in water.
Practising ego and pride, its crumbles down in that water. Pause.
Getting fear-free, he become dauntless.
He thinks not of the creator, who is with him.
He raises armies and collects arms.
But when breath leaves him, he becomes ashes, then
He possesses lofty mansions, places and queens,
he acquires elephants, pairs of horses, to delight the mind,
and he is blessed with a large family of sons and daughters.
But engrossed in their love, the blind man putrefies and dies.
He, who created him, has destroyed him.
Pleasures and enjoyments are like a dream.
He alone is emancipated and possesses empire and wealth,
O servant Nanak, unto whom the Lord is merciful.
Asa 5th Guru.
Man cherishes much love For this Mammon.
The more he acquires it, the more and greater it becomes.
Clung round the neck, somehow, it leaves not the man.
By falling at the True Guru's feet, thou shalt be liberated.
The world fascinating mammon I have discarded and dispelled,
and have met the absolute Lord now, congratulations are pouring in for me. Pause.
It is so charming that it captivates the mind.
It affects man on the way and wharf and in the home, jungle and wilderness.
To the mind and body, it tastes sweet.
By Guru's grace, I have seen it to be deceitful.
Her courtiers are great cheats.
They spare not even their father and mother.
Their associates, they have chained.
By Guru's grace, I have subjugated them all.
Now, there is happiness within my mind.
My fear is gone and my home with all the comfort.
Says Nanak, when I met my True Guru,
I began to abide in my home with all the comfort.
Asa 5th Guru.
Throughout the eight watches, the saint realises the nearness of the Lord,
and to His sweet will he resigns himself.
The one Name is the support of his saints,
and they deem themselves to be the dust of the feet of all.
My brother, hear thou the way of living of the saints.
Their praise one cannot describe. Pause.
Their occupation is the name alone.
The praise of God the embodiment of bliss, is their rest.
Friends and foes are alike to them.
Save their Lord, they know not another.
They are the erasers of millions upon millions of sins.
They dispel anguish and are the giver of divine life unto man.
They are valiant and men of word.
There saints have cheated the poor mammon.
Their association is cherished even by gods of gods.
Accredited is their sight and fruitful their service.
With joined hands Nanak makes a supplication,
O Lord, the Treasure of excellences, bless me with the service of the saints.
Asa 5th Guru.
All the comforts lie in the meditation of the one Name.
All the religious are contained in singing God's praises.
Supremely pure is the society of saints,
meeting which the love for the Lord is embraced.
By Guru's grace, he attains divine bliss.
Whose mind is illumined by remembering God. His condition and limit cannot be described. Pause.
All the fasting, religious vows, ablution and worship to Him,
lie in the remembrance of God, and also lies therein the hearing of Vedas, Puranas and the Simirtis.
Exceedingly pure is his abode,
who in the saints society, meditates on Lord God's Name.
That man becomes manifest in the whole world.
With the dust of his feet, the sinners are rendered pure.
To whom the sovereign Lord master has met,
his condition and limit cannot be described.
Day and night, with folded hands, I contemplate over the Lord,
and see the sight of those saints.
Join me, the poor one, with Thee, O Lord.
Nanak has come and entered Thine sanctuary.
Asa 5th Guru.
He takes bath in water all the eight watches of the day,
and banquets for ever and ever,
He leaves none without sustenance.
Again and again, I fall at His feet.
Such a salagram (a Hindu idol) serve I.
Unto God is my worship, flower-offering and obeisance. Pause.
My salagram is God, whose bell is heard in the world's four corners.
Whose seat is ever in the heaven,
whose fly-brush waves over all,
and whose incense is, ever perfuming.
Every heart is his casket.
Saints' congregation is his imperishable court.
His present adoration consists in singing His praises, which bestow lasting bliss.
His greatness is beauteous and ever limitless.
He who is destined to obtain it, he alone receives such a stone-god,
and comes under the protection of saints' feet.
I have obtained God as the stone-god.
Says Nanak the Guru has given me this gift.
Asa 5th Guru. Panchpada.
The highway on which she carrier of the water of passions is plundered,
that road is far from the saints.
The True Guru has told the truth.
The Name, O Lord, is the way of salvation, and the road of death's couriers is far away from it. Pause.
The place where the greedy toll-gatherer taxes the mortals,
that path is removed away from Lord's slave.
Where very many caravans of men are tortured,
there the saints remain in the company of the transcendent Lord.
The recording angels write the accounts of all the mortals,
but the saintly persons, they see not with the eye.
Says Nanak, whose Satguru is perfect,
for him, the unblown trumpets of bliss play.
Asa 5th Guru. Dupda.
The saints society teaches the Name's meditation,
where with all the desires and tasks are fulfilled.
Sated with God's praise my thirst is quenched.
I live by continually contemplating over God the Sustainer of earth in His hand
I have entered the sanctuary of the Doer and Prompter.
By Guru's grace I have easily obtained the bliss of Name. The darkness is dispelled and the moon of wisdom has risen. Pause.
With gems and jewels my treasures are full.
By remembering the Formless they exhaust not.
Rare is the person who drinks the name nectar
Nanak he attains to the supreme dignity.
Asa 5th Guru.
God's Name do I ever remember in my mind
Thus I save all my associates and comrades.
The Guru is ever with and near me.
I continuously contemplate over and ever remember Him. Pause.
Thine doings seem sweet unto me.
Nanak craves for the wealth of God's Name
Asa 5th Guru.
By the saints society the world is redeemed.
God's name is the mainstay of the mind
The saints who bear love and affection to God,
worship the lotus feet of the beloved and bright Guru. Pause.
Who has good fortune recorded on her forehead,
says Nanak, eternal is the married life of her.
Asa 5th Guru.
The order of the Beloved is sweet to me.
My Spouse has driven out of the home my co-wife
My Groom has decorated me His happy wife.
He has slaked the burning of my mind.
It is well that I submitted to the bidding of my spouse.
I have realised the peace and poise of this house of mine. Pause.
I am the hand maiden and an attendant of my Beloved.
He is Imperishable Inaccessible and Unlimited
Taking the fan and sitting at His Feet I wave it over my darling Husband.
The five demons my torturers have fled away.
I am not of high family nor am I beauteous.
What know I why I have become pleasing to my husband
I am orphan poor and unhonoured.
My husband took me and made me His queen.
When I saw my Beloved Friend before me,
I obtained happiness and poise and blessed became my married life.
Says Nanak my desire is fulfilled
The True Guru has united me with Lord the Treasure of excellences.
Asa 5th Guru.
On her forehead is a frown and evil is her look.
Bitter is her speech and rude her tongue.
I am ever hungry and knows her Groom to be distant.
Such a female mammon has the pervading God created.
She has devoured the whole world The Guru has saved me my brother. Pause.
Administering the poisonous potion she has secured the entire world,
She has bewitched the god of creation the god of cherishment and the god of destruction.
They who are attached to the Name through the Guru look beautiful
Men have grown weary performing fasts vows and expiations.
They wander to the banks of sacred streams of the whole world.
They alone are saved who seek the shelter of the True Guru.
By the love of wealth the whole world is bound.
The self willed fools are consumed by egotism,
Taking me by the arm Guru Nanak has saved me.
Asa 5th Guru.
All is pain when one forgets the Lord.
Here and hereafter such a mortal is of no avail.
The saints are satiated by remembering God's Name.
Thou O Lord mercifully attachest men to Thy name and all the comforts are in obedience to Thy command. Pause.
The man who deems the ever-present God to be far,
dies continuously repenting.
Who has given him all the things Him the man remembers not.
Engrossed in the arch deadly sins. His day and night are wasted.
Says Nanak meditate thou on the one Lord.
By seeking the shelter of the Perfect Guru salvation is attained
Asa 5th Guru.
Meditating on God's Name man's mind and body are all reverdured.
All his sins and demerits are washed off.
Auspicious is that day, my brother,
when by singing God's praises the supreme status is obtained. Pause.
By worshipping the feet of the pious persons,
wrangling and enmity are effaced from man's mind.
Meeting the perfect Guru the strife is stilled,
and all the five demons are subdued.
In whose mind the Name of God abides,
Nanak is a sacrifice unto him.
Asa 5th Guru.
O singer sing thou the praise of God,
who is the support of soul body and the life.
Serve Him in whose service thou shalt attain all the comforts.
Thou shalt not then go to any other again.
My joyous Master always remains happy. Ever, ever meditate thou on Lord the Treasure of excellences.
I am devoted unto the dear saint whose favour the Lord, is enshrined within my mind. Pause.
Whose bounties exhaust not.
Into Him the Lord all can merge by adopting sublime way of life.
Whose gifts none can efface.
That True Lord enshrine thou in thy mind.
Whose house is brimful with all sorts of articles,
that Lord's slaves never repent in pain.
By grasping His Protection the fearless status is obtained.
With every breath sing thou O man the praise of that Lord the Treasure of merits.
He is not far from the mortal wherever he goes.
If He shows mercy then alone the Lord's Name is attained
I make supplication in the presence of the Perfect Guru.
Nanak craves for the capital of the wealth of God's Name
Asa 5th Guru.
First vanishes the pain of the body,
and then the mind attains all peace.
The Guru has mercifully given me God's Name
A sacrifice a sacrifice am I unto that True Guru.
The perfect Guru I have obtained O my brother.
By seeking the protection of the True Guru all my ailments sorrows and distresses are destroyed. Pause.
Guru's Feet I have placed within my mind,
and I have received all the fruits my heart desired.
My fire of lust is extinguished and I am all at peace.
Showering his benediction the Guru has given me the gift of God's Name.
To the shelterless the Guru has given the shelter.
Unto the dishonoured the Guru has bestowed honour.
Shattering the shackles the Guru has protected me like his slave
The ambrosial Gurbani I now taste with my tongue.
Through the greatest good luck I have adored the Guru's Feet.
Forsaking all I have obtained the Lord's protection.
The person unto whom Guru, O Nanak, is merciful,
becomes jubilant for aye.
Asa 5th Guru.
The True Satguru has sent the child.
The long lived child has been born by destiny.
When he came and acquired an abode in the womb,
his mother's heart became very glad.
The son the saint of the World-Lord is born.
The primal writ has become manifest amongst all. Pause.
In the tenth month by Lord command the baby has been born.
Sorrow has left and great joy has become manifest.
The mates sing the Guru's hymns in glee.
This is pleasing to the True Lord's heart.
The vine has extended and shall last for many generations.
The Lord has firmly established the machinery of devotion and love.
The Satguru has granted me what my mind wished for.
I have become care free and have fixed my attention on one God.
As a child takes great pride on its father,
so do I speak as it pleases the Guru to have me speak.
It is not a concealed and hidden matter.
Guru Nanak being mightily pleased has given me this gift.
Asa 5th Guru.
Giving his hand the perfect Guru has protected the child.
The glory of His servant has become manifest.
Contemplate I on the exalted Guru and on the great Guru do I meditate.
What I pray for with my heart I receive that from the Guru. Pause.
I have entered the sanctuary of the True Divine Guru.
His servant service has been accomplished.
He has preserved my soul, body youth and life.
Says Nanak I am a sacrifice unto my Guru.
Asa Measure. 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I am a purchaser slave of Thine. Thou art my True Lord.
My soul and body are all His. My everything is Thine, O Lord.
Thou art the honour of the dishonoured, O Master and in Thee I put my trust.
He, who has another support except the True One, know him to be imperfect. Pause.
Thine empire is boundless, No one knows its limit.
He, who, meets the Perfect Guru, walks according to Thy will.
Cunning and cleverness serve no purpose.
Whatever the Lord gives through His pleasure that is my peace.
Even though a man performs lacs of ceremonies, no halt is put to his desire.
Servant Nanak has made God's Name his support and forsaken other avocations.
Asa 5th Guru.
I have sought all the enjoyments but none is as great as the enjoyment of God.
Through Guru's pleasures, He, the True Lord, is obtained.
I am devoted unto my Guru and am ever a sacrifice unto him.
My Master grant me this gift that I may not forget Thy Name even for a moment and trice. Pause.
Truly wealthy is he alone, who has God's wealth in his heart.
He alone is redeemed from the great noose, who, within his mind, has the Guru. word.
What praise of the Guru should I describe? The Guru is ocean of Divine Knowledge and truthfulness.
In prime and beginning of ages and all the ages through, He is the Perfect Lord.
With Lord God's love in my mind, ever, ever I contemplate over the Name.
The Guru is Nanak's soul, life and wealth, and He is ever with him.
Asa 5th Guru.
If the Invisible and Infinite Lord abides in my mind, even for a moment,
O my mother, my troubles, agonies and ailments all vanish away.
I am a sacrifice to my Master.
Contemplating over Him, there ensues great joy within my soul and body. Pause.
I have heard a little tiding regarding that True Master.
Peace upon I have received, O my mother and I cannot evaluate its worth.
He, the Lord is pleasing to mine eyes and by beholding Him I have been bewitched.
Meritless, I am, my mother. He Himself has attached me to His skirt.
The Lord is beyond the Vedas and the four religious books of the Muslim, Christian and Jews.
Nanak's King is seen manifest, everywhere.
Asa 5th Guru.
Lacs of devotees meditate on Thee, uttering. Beloved, Beloved.
In what way shalt Thou unite with Thyself my virtueless and sensuous soul?
Thou art my prop, O merciful Master, the supporter of the earth and the World-Cherisher.
Thou art the master of all and the entire creation is Thine. Pause.
Thou art ever the succourer of the saints who beholds Thee ever present.
They, who are without the Name, die sorrowing and repenting.
The servants who lovingly perform Lord's service; their transmigration is ended.
What shall be the plight of those, who forget the Name?
As is the stray beast, so is the entire world.
Cut off, O Nanak's the fetters and blend me with Thyself, O Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
Forget all other things and think only of the One Lord.
Lay aside thy false pride, and dedicate thy soul and body, unto Him.
During the eight watches of the day, praise thou thy Creator.
I live by Thine bounties, show mercy unto me, O my Master. Pause.
Do that work, by which thy countenance be bright.
O God, He alone, whom Thou givest, becomes attached to truth.
Build and beautify that house which never falls, O man.
Enshrine Thou One God in thy mind who shall never die.
The Lord is dear to those, who are pleasing to the Lord.
By Guru's grace, Nanak has described the Indescribable One.
Asa 5th Guru.
What are they like who forget not the Name?
They are like the Lord Know that there is absolutely no difference between the two.
The soul and body become happy by meeting with Thee O Lord
By God's slave's favour peace is obtained and all the pain is stilled. Pause.
As many there are continents of the world so many hast thou saved O Lord.
They are the perfect saints, devotees within whose mind Thou Thyself abidest O God.
Whom Thou Thyself acceptest O Lord he alone is honoured.
Such and accepted and celebrated person is known every where o True Sovereign fulfil
That I may meditate and ponder on Thee, day and night and at every breath,
this deisire of Nanak be fulfilled, O True Master!
Asa 5th Guru.
That Spouse of mine is fully contained in all the places.
Unique is my Lord over whose head is the royal umbrella there is not any other (like him).
Save me as it pleases Thee O the Saviour.
Without thee with mine eyes I have not seen any other. Pause.
The Lord Himself cherishes (bring up) and takes care of all the hearts In whose heart
Thou Thyself dwellest He forgets Thee not.
Whatever Pleases Him that He does Himself.
Through all the ages He is known to be the Helper of His devotees.
Pondering and contemplating over God's Name the mortal never repents.
O Nanak I thirst for Thy sight Fulfil my desire O Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
O careless and uninformed fellow why sleepest thou forgetting the Name?
So many are washed and carried away by this stream of life.
O man embark on the ship of God's Feet and cross the world ocean.
During the eight watches chant thou the glories of God, in the company of saints. Pause.
Thou enjoyest various pleasures but they are vain without the Name.
Without devotion to God thou shalt weep thyself to death and destruction.
Thou dressest eatest perfumest thy body and rubbest otto.
But without Lord's remembrance thy body shall become dust and thou shall assuredly depart.
Very difficult to cross is the world ocean but only a few realise it.
The salvation lies in God's refuge O Nanak and this is the ordained writ of the Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
No one is a companion of another so why be one proud of one's relations?
With the support of One name the dreadful world ocean is crossed.
My Perfect Satguru thou art the true prop of me the poor.
By seeing Thine sight my mind takes courage. Pause.
Kingdom wealth and involvement are not accounted of any avail.
God's praise is my mainstay and ever enduring is this wealth.
As many are the revelments of mammon and all there are but shadows.
The Name is the treasure of peace and the Guru wards sing the praise thereof.
The True Lord is the treasure of excellences Thou O master art deep and profound.
The hope and support of the Master are in Nanak's mind.
Asa 5th Guru.
Remembering Him suffering is removed and supreme bliss is obtained.
With joined hands night and day meditate on the Lord God.
He alone is Nanak Lord to whom belong all.
He the Truest of the True is fully pervading every where. Pause.
Within and without He is my companion and helper and He is worthy of being realised.
Remember Him my soul and all thine ailments shall be cured.
The Infinite Lord is the saviour He saves man even in fire.
Cool is the Lord God's Name remembering it the burning is slaked.
He who becomes the dust of God's slave's Feet O Nanak attains immense peace poise and happiness.
By meeting the Perfect Guru all the affairs are adjusted.
Asa 5th Guru.
The world Master is the treasure of merits and He is known through the Guru.
When the Guru becomes Kind and compassionate The man enjoys God's love.
Come ye saint let us together discuss God's discourses and anecdotes.
Discarding the people's criticism let us night and day meditate on God's Name. Pause.
I live by uttering and repeating the Name and so obtain great bliss.
Perishable is the love of the world and being false it soon dies out.
Rarely some embrace love for the Lord's lotus feet.
Blessed and beautiful is the mouth which repeats the Name of God.
By a Lord's meditation end transmigration and the pain of death.
For Nanak that alone is the peace which pleases the Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
Come my friends let us meet and enjoy all sweet and saltish savours.
Let us together repeat the Nectar Name of the Lord God and blot out our sins.
Meditate on Reality O pious persons that no trouble may befall you.
The holy men remain wakeful and destroy all the thieves (the five passions). Pause.
Have wisdom and humility as your viaticum and burn the sin of pride.
True is the shop and perfect the transaction Deal in the merchandise of the Name.
They who dedicate their souls bodies and wealth are illustrious.
They who are pleasing to their Lord ever make merry.
The fools who drink wine of evil understanding become husbands of concubines.
They who are imbued with the Lord's elixir are the true drunkard, O Nanak.
Asa 5th Guru.
Prompted by the Guru. I put in an effort and made the beginning.
I live by repeating and uttering the Name Within me the Guru has implanted the Name spell.
I fall at the feet of the True Guru. who has dispelled my doubt.
Showing His mercy the Lord has dressed and decorated me with truth. Pause.
Grasping me by the hand through His true command and will He has made me His own.
The gift which the Lord has given me that is the perfect honour for me.
Utter the Name of God the enemy of pride and ever, ever sing His praise.
The Lord has shown mercy and by True Guru's grace my principle is observed.
The Perfect Guru has given me the Name's wealth and the profit of singing God's praise.
O Nanak the saints are the pedlers and the Infinite Lord is their Banker.
Asa 5th Guru.
He whose Thou art the Master, O Lord his is the great destiny.
He is at ease and ever happy and His doubt and dread are all dispelled.
I am the servant of God the world sustainer Great indeed is my Lord.
He who in every way the designer of chances is my True Guru. Pause.
There is not any other whose fear I should entertain.
By Guru's service Lord's presence is attained and the impassable world ocean is crossed.
By Thine gracious glance peace is procured and the Name's treasure is enshrined in the mind.
He unto him Thou becomest merciful that slave is approved.
Some rare person drinks the immortalizing Nectar of God's praise.
Nanak has obtained the livelihood of the One Name He lives by pondering and contemplating over is in his mind.
Asa 5th Guru.
The Lord whose hand maiden I am is the highest of all.
All the things small and big are said to be His.
My soul life and wealth are accepted as the Lord's own.
I am accounted the maid servant of Him through whose Name I have become pure. Pause.
Thou art care free and embodiment of bliss Thy Name is a jewel and a gem.
Sated satiated and ever happy is she whose Master Thou art.
Ye friends and maids of my association implant unto me right understanding.
I serve the saints with love therefore obtain God's treasure.
All are the hand maidens of the Lord and all call His their own.
She alone whom the Lord adorns O Nanak abides in peace.
Asa 5th Guru.
Become the handmaiden of the saints and learn thou this conduct.
The sublimest virtue of all the virtues is not to see thy Spouse afar.
Dye this beautiful soul of thine with the madder of God's name O bride.
Abandon cleverness and cunningness and know thou that the World Cherisher is with thee. Pause.
What the Spouse says act thou on that and make this thy embellishment.
Forget the love of another and chew thou this betel O bride.
Make This Gurbani thy lamp and spread the couch of chastity.
All the day long remain standing with clasped hands than shall the Sovereign Lord meet thee O bride.
She alone possesses discretion and all the decoration and she is of matchless beauty.
She alone is the true wife O Nanak who is pleasing to the Creator.
Asa 5th Guru.
As long as there are doubts in the mind till then man falls and staggers.
When my Guru removed my doubts I obtained rest.
Those quarrelsome adversaries they have left me through the Guru.
I have now escaped from them and they have escaped from me. Pause.
When man knows mine and thine since then he is held in bondage.
When the Guru dispelled my spiritual ignorance then was my noose cut.
As long as man understands not God's will so long he remains miserable.
Meeting the Guru when he recognises Lord's will since then he becomes happy.
I have no enemy or an evil-wisher nor is nay one wicked towards me.
The servant who performs Guru's service O Nanak is the slave of the Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
Sing God's praises and thou shalt obtain peace poise and great happiness.
Granting His Name the True Guru removes the evil influences.
I am devoted to my Guru and am ever, ever a sacrifice to Him.
I am sacrifice unto my Guru, by meeting whom I have attained my real object. Pause.
Good omens and bad omens befall him who remember not the Lord.
Death's courier draws not near him who is pleasing to the Lord God.
As many as there are alms giving charities recitations and penances above them all is the God's Name.
Whoever with his tongue utters God's Name his affairs are arranged (by God.)
His fear is removed, his doubt and worldly love have fled and he sees none other than God.
Nanak If the Transcendent Lord preserves no trouble then befalls the man.
Asa 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Within my mind I meditate on the Lord and attain all peace but I know not if hereafter I shall be pleasing to Him or not.
There is but One Donor all others are beggars Hence to whom else should I go a begging
When I beg others I feel ashamed.
Only one Lord is the Monarch of all whom else should I deem equal to Him? Pause.
Standing and sitting I cannot live without Him I search for the way to His vision.
The God like Brahma and hermits like Sanak Sanandan Sanatan and Sanat Kumar for them the Lord's presence is difficult to obtain.
the Lord is unapproachable Infinite and of Unfathomable wisdom and I cannot ascertain His inestimable worth.
His protection that of the True Person I have sought and I think of the potent True Guru.
The Lord Master has become kind and compassionate He has snapped the noose around my neck.
Says Nanak now when I have obtained the society of saints then I shall not be born again.
Asa 5th Guru.
I sing God's praises at home I sing them abroad I sing God's praises awaking and in sleep.
I am the dealer in the Lord's Name He has given me the viaticum of His Name to carry with me.
Other things I have completely forgotten
The Perfect Guru has given me the Name's gift this alone is my support. Pause.
In woe I sing Lord's praises and in weal I sing them as well On my way in the journey I remember Him.
The Guru has firmly fixed the Name within my mind and has quenched my thirst.
I sing God's praises by day I sing them be night and them I sing with my tongue at every breath as well.
In the society of saints this faith that in life and death God is with us is established.
Bestow this gift upon Thy slave Nanak O Lord that he my obtain and keep clasped to his heart the dust of saints feet hear Lord's discourse
with his ears behold His sight with his eyes and put the Guru's feet on his forehead.
There is but one God. By Guru's grace He is obtained.
Asa 5th Guru.
The body which thou believest to be permanent that is only guest of two days.
Children wife home and all other property the love of all these things is false.
O man why doest thou burst out laughing.
See with thine eyes that these things are like an enchanted city Obtain thou the profit of one Lord's meditation. Pause.
As the clothes worn on the body wear off in two or four days so does the body.
How long one can run on a wall. At last he arrives at its end.
As salt falling into the water kept in a reservoir gets dissolved so does the body.
When the order of the Supreme Lord arrives the soul arises and departs in a moment and trice.
O man thy walking is counted thy sitting is counted and so is counted thy taking in of the breath.
Ever sing thou God's praises O Nanak and thou shalt be saved under the shelter of the True Guru's Feet.
Asa 5th Guru.
From the reversed thing it has become upright and the deadly enemies and miscreants have become friends.
The jewel(of Divine Knowledge) has shone in darkness and the impure understanding has become wholesome.
When the World-Lord became merciful.
I met the true Guru. and I have obtained peace wealth and the fruit of God's Name. Pause.
No one knew me the miserly one now I have become famous all the world over.
Previously no one allowed me to sit by him but now all worship my feet.
Formerly I wandered in search of half a pice and now all the thirst of my mind is quenched.
I could not bear even one reproach from any one but now I am calmed through the society of saints.
What merits of the Inaccessible Infinite and Unfathomable Lord can one tongue describe.
Serf Nanak is under God's protection O Lord make him the slave of the slave of Thy slave.
Asa 5th Guru.
O Fool thou art very slow in regard to thy profit but in regard to thy loss thou hastily runnest.
O sinner thou takest not the cheap merchandise of God's Name but art tied to the debt of vice.
My true Guru my hope is in thee.
O Transcendent Lord Thy Name is the purifier of the sinners and this alone is my shelter. Pause.
Listening to the evil songs thou art entangled but in repeating the Name thou art indolent.
Thou art greatly delighted in the idea of slander and art possessed of perverted understanding.
Thou covetest wealth, son and wife of others, slander others and by eating the uneatable thou has gone mad.
Thou cherishes not love for the True faith and on hearing the truth thou art enraged.
O compassionate to the poor. merciful Lord Master Thy Name is the prop of Thine saints.
O Lord Nanak has eagerly entered Thine Sanctuary Make him Thy own and save his honour.
Asa 5th Guru.
Men are attached with the association of perishable things With the love of mammon they are bound.
Whither they have to go that they mind not and through haughty intellect they have gone blind.
Becoming renouncer O man why rememberest thou not the Lord?
Thou abidest in the frail chamber where the diseases of all the sins are with thee. Pause.
Claiming as mine, mine the days and nights pass away and every moment and trice thy life is wearing off.
As men are lured by sweet savours so art thou lured by false and filthy occupations.
These sense organs of thine are attached to the pleasures of lust wrath avarice and worldly love.
The Omnipotent scribe of destiny has caused thee to go round again and again in births.
When the Destroyer of the sorrows of the poor becomes merciful then on meeting the Guru all the comforts are obtained.
Says Nanak day and night I meditate on the Lord and He has beaten and banished all my ailments.
Like this O my brother contemplate thou on the powerful Lord of destiny.
The Remover of the grief of the meek has become compassionate and the pain of my birth and death is removed. Pause Second.
Asa 5th Guru.
For a moment's sexual pleasure thou shalt suffer torture for millions of days.
For an instant and a trice thou shalt enjoy revelments but afterwards thou shalt repent again and again.
O blind man meditate thou on thy Sovereign Lord Master.
Thy that day of death is drawing nigh. Pause.
Thou art misled on beholding with thine eyes for a moment the ak (swallow wort neem (azadirachta) and tumma (indica)
As is the companionship of a venomous serpent so is the ravishing of another's wife.
Thou committest sins for the sake of wealth thy enemy and thou hast neglected the commodity of Lord's faith.
They who leave thee (in lurch) with them is thy friendship and with thy intimates thou bearest enmity.
The entire world is entangled in this way. He alone is saved whose Guru is perfect.
Says Nanak I have crossed the terrible world ocean and my body has become purified.
Asa 5th Guru Dupade.
What man does in secret, that Though beholdest O Lord, though the fool and blockhead deny it.
For his own actions, he is bound down and then, afterwards he regrets.
My Lord comes to know, before hand, all the designs of man.
Deceived by doubt, though, O man, concealest thine deeds, but afterwards, though shalt have to confess the secrets of thy mind. Pause.
To whatever they(the people) are yoked, to that remain yoked. What can any mortal do?
Pardon me, O Supreme Lord Master, Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Asa 5th Guru.
The Lord Himself preserves the honour of His slave, and of Himself He causes him to repeat His name.
Wheresoever the business and affair of His slave is, thither the Lord runs.
To his servant, the Lord shows Himself to be near.
Whatever the servant asks his Master, forthwith comes to pass. Pause.
I am a sacrifice unto the attendant, who is pleasing to his Master.
Hearing his glory, Nanak's mind is reverdured and to him Nanak goes to touch his feet.
Asa 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
The buffoon exhibits guises in many ways, but he remains the same as he is.
So does the soul wander in many births through doubt, but remains the same and enters not the peace.
O saints, my friends and intimates, without God's Name everything is perishable.
Joining the society of Saints, I have won this precious human life by singing God's praise. Pause.
The Lord has fashioned the world of three qualities. Say, O man, in what way can it be crossed?
The whirl-pool is unfathomable and formidable, and by Guru's word it is ferried across.
By continually searching, seeking and deliberating; Nanak has realised that,
by meditating on the invaluable Name treasure, the heart jewel is appeased.
Asa 5th Guru. Dupade.
By Guru's grace, the Lord is enshrined within my mind, and whatever I Ask for, that I receive.
With Name's love this mind is sated and goes not anywhere else, again.
My Master is the highest of all, and, night and day, I sing His praises.
In a moment, he is potent to establish and to disestablish, and through Him, I frighten thee. Pause.
When I behold my Lord Master, then I place not another within my mind.
The Lord Himself has dressed slave Nanak with the robe of honour and dispelling his doubt and dread, he writes Lord's praises.
Asa 5th Guru.
The four castes, the holy-men of four castes, the persons on whose hand's palm are the six Shastras,
the beauteous, the accomplished, the fascinating and the wise, them all the five mortal passions have bewitched and beguiled.
Who is there such a powerful person, who has seized and destroyed the five puissant heroes.
He, who passes his life having defeated and slain the five, is perfect in this Dark age. Pause.
Theirs is a great race, which cannot be controlled and which flees not. They form a mighty and stubborn army.
Says Nanak, the man who is under the protection of saints society crushes them.
Asa 5th Guru.
The good thing for the soul is the Lord's sublime discourse. All other relishes are insipid. Pause.
The men of many merits, expert musicians. silent sages and knowers of six Shashtras deem noting else worthy of man's deliberation.
This discourse of God is an antidote to passion, singular, unequalled, peace-giving and is quaffed in the saints society, O Nanak.
Asa 5th Guru.
It (Gurbani) is sweet unto me and it is stream of Nectar. The Guru has not diverted it from my mind. Even for a moment. Pause.
On beholding and touching it, I am sweetened and delighted. It is imbued with creator's love.
By reciting it even for a moment, man mounts to the Guru and by ever repeating it he is not trapped by Death's Courier. God has garlanded Nanak's neck and heart with Gurbani.
Asa 5th Guru.
Good is the society of saints. Pause.
Every watch, hour and moment I continuously sing the praise of the world - preserver and speak of the Lord.
Walking, sitting and sleeping, I utter God's praise, and to my mind body His feet are pleasing.
I am small, thou, O Lord art great. O Nanak, have sought thine protection.
Asa Measure 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Lay aside all thine clevernesses and remember the Formless Supreme Lords.
Without the One True Name, all else appears to be dust.
Deem that Lord to be ever with thee.
By Guru's favour, he who under-stand this realty, is imbued, with the love of one God. Pause
Seek thou the shelter of the one Omnipotent Lord, as there is no other place of safety.
The most dreadful world ocean is crossed, by ever singing God's praise.
Transmigration comes to an end men faces not suffering in the city of death.
He alone obtains the Name treasure, unto whom He, the Lord shows mercy.
The one Lord is my mainstay and One support, and that one Lord's power is in my mind.
Joining the society of saints, O Nanak, meditate thou on God Without Him, there is not another.
Asa 5th Guru.
The soul, mind, body and the life are of the Lord. He has given all the pleasure and dainties.
He is the relation of the poor, bestower of life and potent to save those who seek His protection.
My soul, meditate thou on Lord God's Name.
Contract love with the One Lord, who is the helper and companion of thine in this world and the world beyond. Pause.
The men ponder on the Vedas and Shashtras to swim across the world -ocean.
To all religious rituals and various ceremonial rites, superior is the conduct of the Name's meditation.
Lust, wrath and pride depart on meeting the God -Incarnate True Guru.
Implant within thee the Name, God's meditation and the sublime service of the Lord.
My Merciful Master, I have sough the protection of thine feet. Thou art honour of the dishonoured.
Thou, O Lord art the mainstay of my soul and life and Thou art Nanak's strength.
Asa 5th Guru.
Without the society of saints, man ever wavers and suffer great agony.
By the love of the One Supreme God, the profit of Lord's divine Nectar is earned.
Meditate thou, ever, on God's Name.
With every breath, contemplate thou on Him, the Lord and forsake other love. Pause
He, the Omnipotent Lord is the cause of causes and Himself is the Giver of life.
Discord all thy clevernesses and throughout the eight watches, dwell thou on the Lord.
The lofty, Inaccessible and Infinite Lord shall then become thy friend, companion, helper and an associate.
Enshrine thou the Lord's lotus Feet in my mind as he alone is the prop of life.
O my Transcendent Lord Master show mercy unto me, that I may sing Thine excellences and praises.
To live by contemplating on Lord's Name, is with Nanak, the entries peace and the greatest glory.
Asa 5th Guru.
Meeting the society of saints, O Lord, prompted by Thee, I make an effort to see Thee.
O Lord God, my Master, Thou Thyself dye me with the colour of Thy Name.
Within my mind, I meditate on Lord's Name.
Show Thine mercy and abide within, and Thyself be my succour. Pause.
Continuously hearing Thy Name my dear Lord, I have come to cherish an ambition to see Thee
Have compassion on me, Thy worm. This alone is my aim and object.
My body and wealth are Thine Thou art my Lord. nothing is in my power.
As Thou Keepest me, so do I live and I eat what Thou givest me.
The bath in the dust of the feet of God's slave, washes off the sins of many births.
By Lord's devotional service, doubt and dread depart and one finds, O Nanak, ever in the presence of God.
Asa 5th Guru.
Thy sight, O Lord, is unapproachable. And incomprehensible and he alone obtains it who has good luck recorded on his forehead.
The Merciful Master, has Himself shows mercy to me, and the True Guru has granted God's Name unto me.
The Divine Guru has saved the Dark-age.
The fools and blockheads, who are filthy like ordure and urine have all taken to Thy service. Pause.
Thou Thyself art the creator and the Establisher of the whole world. Thou art contained amongst all.
The Righteous judge was taken by surprise, at the sight of all men falling at the Lord's Feet.
The Satyug (Gold age), Treta (Silver age) and Doapar (Brass age). are said to be good ages, but the Kalyuga (Iron age) is the best of all.
In this age, one who does with this hand, receives the same with then other hand. None is apprehend in place of another.
O Reverend God, Thou doest that what Thine slaves ask for. This is Thy inherent disposition.
With clasped hands I, O Nanak, crave for a boon, O God. Bless Thine saints with Thy sight.
Asa Measure 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
By thy words, O True Guru,
even the virtueless have been saved. Pause.
The most quarrelsome, vicious and indecent persons, have been rendered pure in Thy company.
Those who wandered in births and were consigned to hell, even their families thou hast redeemed.
They, whom none knew and whom none honoured, they have become renowned at God's court.
What praise and what greatness should I attribute to thee. O my Guru Nanak. I am every moment, a sacrifice unto thee.
Asa 5th Guru.
The mad-men are asleep. Pause.
They are intoxicated with family love and sensual enjoyments and seized of false grips.
The perverse call true, the false desires and the delights and merriments of its dream.
The wealth of the Nectar-name is with them and they find not even a sesame of its secret
Nanak, they who are under the protection of the saints society, them the Lord mercifully redeems.
Asa 5th Guru Tipade.
I seek the love of that beloved of mine. Pause.
Gold, game, elephant -pearls and rubies, no, no, I need them not.
No empire no fortune, no command and no relish; none of these do I desire.
The patronage of the Lord's Feet and obeisance unto the saints, in these I find the comfort of comfort. Nanak's burning is gone, by obtaining the love of the Beloved.
Asa 5th Guru.
The Guru has show thee to mine eyes, O Lord. Pause.
Here and there, in every soul and in every body, Thou. Thou alone art contained, O Bewitched.
Thou alone art the cause of cause and the supporter of the earth, O Unique, Beauteous Lord.
Nanak devotes himself to meeting and belonging the saints and he sleeps in complete peace.
Asa 5th Guru.
Lord God's Name is priceless,
and the Name is naturally comfortable. Pause.
God is my companion and helper forsaking me he goes nowhere else. He is Unfathomable and Unweighable.
he is my friend, brother, father and mother and the shelter of the saints.
The Invisible Lord is seen and obtained through the Guru, and this O Nanak is the wonderous play of God.
Asa 5th Guru.
Sustain my devotional service. O Lord!
With eagerness I have come to Thee. Pause.
With the Name wealth, life becomes fruitful. O man, place Lord's Feet in thy mind.
This is the salvation and this the way of life. Keep me in the society of saints.
By meditating on the Name and singing God's praise, Nanak has naturally been absorbed in the Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
Beautiful are the feet of the Lord,
God's saints have obtained them. Pause.
They dispel their self conceit perform Lord's service and drenched in love sing His praise.
Their faith is in one Lord, they thirst to behold Him and nothing else pleases them. All this is thy mercy, O Lord.
What is the poor creature? Nanak is device and a sacrifice unto Thee
Asa 5th Guru.
Meditate only on the One Lord, in thy mind. Pause.
Remember Lord's Name and enshrine Him in thy mind. Without Him there is not another.
By entering the sanctuary of the Lord, all the fruits are obtained and all the trouble are removed.
O Nanak, the omnipotent Creator is the Donor of all the being and is contained in every heart.
Asa 5th Guru.
He, who has forgotten God, is dead. Pause.
He, who remembers the Name, obtains all the boons. That man becomes happy.
He, who calls himself a King and practises pride, is caught by doubt like a parrot by the trap.
Says Nanak, he who meet the True Guru, that man becomes immortal.
Asa 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
That love is ever fresh, which is embraced for one's Beloved. Pause.
He, who is pleasing to the Lord, enters not womb again; he remains absorbed in God's devotional service and God's love.
Man merges with the Lord, by dedicating this soul unto Him. Shower Thy benediction, O Lord, That Nanak may obtain Thy Name.
Asa 5th Guru.
Meet me my Beloved Lord, without Thee no one gives me consolation. Pause.
Though man may read Simirtis and Shashtras and perform many rituals, yet without Thy vision, O Lord, there is no peace.
Men have grown weary of observing fasts, vows and self mortification. In the sanctuary of saints Nanak abides with the Lord.
Asa 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is attained.
The man is sleep in the intoxication of sin and wealth and finds not understanding.
Seizing him by the hair, when death's courier lifts him up, then alone does he come to his senses.
They, who are attached to the poison of avarice and evil passion, snatch others wealth and oppress their heart.
These demons are intoxicated with the pride of what is destroyed in a moment and know not the Lord. Pause
The Vedas, the Shastras and the holy men cry out, but the deaf hears not.
The foolish man regrets in his mind, when the game of life is closed, and having lost it, he breathes his last.
The entire fine he has paid without reasons and in God's court it is not credited.
The work which would have covered his sins that work he has not done.
When the Guru revealed to me the world to be such, then I began to sing the praises of the One Lord.
Having renounced pride in his strength, Nanak has entered Lord's sanctuary.
Asa 5th Guru.
By dealing in the Lord's, Name,
please the saints and pious persons, obtain the Beloved sing His praises and play the melody with five musical instruments. Pause.
When I obtained Lord's favour, I, easily, has a vision of Him and now, I am imbued with Lord's love.
By serving the saints, I imbibed love and affection for my Beloved Master.
The Guru has fixed Divine Knowledge in my mind, and I am rejoiced that I shall not come (born) again, I have attained equipoise and God's treasure within my heart.
I have renounced all the affairs of my mind's desire.
It is long, long and long since my soul has felt a great thirst (for God's vision).
O God, show me Thine sight and apprise me of Thy presence.
Meek Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary, O Lord, take me in Thy embrace.
Asa 5th Guru.
Can any one destroy the strong fortress of sin,
and turn himself form hope, thirst, deception, worldly love and doubt? Pause.
Can one leave this disease of lust, wrath, avarice and pride.
In the saints society and the Name's love, I sing the praise of the World-Lord.
Night and day I meditate on the Lord.
I capture and demolish the rampart of doubt.
Nanak, the Lord's Name is my treasure.
Asa 5th Guru.
Abandon lust, wrath and avarice,
remember the Name of the World Master in thy heart.
God's meditation is the only fruitful affair. Pause.
Shed thy pride, worldly-love, sin and falsehood and ever utter the Pervading Lord's Name.
O man, attach thyself to the saints' feet.
The Lord is the Cherisher of the world, merciful to the poor. the Purifier of the sinners and thy Transcendent God. Awake and remember His Feet.
Perform Lord's Devotional Service thy destiny shall become perfect, O Nanak.
Asa 5th Guru.
The Lord has exhibited the play of weal and woe, renunciation and revelry. Pause.
In a moment, man is in fear, in a moment in fearlessness and in moment he gets up and departs.
One moment he enjoys relishes, in another he revels, and in another moments he leaves and goes away.
One moment he practises Yoga, penance and worship of many kinds, and one moment he wanders in doubt.
At a moment, Nanak, God out of mercy, attaches man to His love, by association with the saints.
Asa Measure 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Meditate thou on Lord, the World sustainer,
and enshrine love in thy mind for God's Name.
What the Guru says, place that in thy mind.
Tear thyself off from another and turn to the Lord;
like this thou shalt obtain thy Beloved, O my maid. Pause.
In the world-pool is the mud of attachment.
Man's feet, therefore, walk not towards God.
The foolish man is thus stuck up. He makes no other effort.
Other solutions are all tried,
thou shalt only issue forth, O mate, if thou enter Lord's sanctuary.
This immovable and steady and firm is your mind.
The forest and home are alike to me.
Within my mind abides the one Beloved.
Manifold worldly occupations I keep off my mind.
I enjoy temporal and spiritual sovereignty.
Says Nanak, hear, O maid, like this, while abiding with people, I remain apart from the people.
Asawari 5th Guru.
Cherish but one desire.
Ever fix thy attention on the Guru.
Fix the comprehension of the saints word in thy mind.
Serve the feet of the Guru.
Then, by Guru's grace, shalt thou meet thy Master, O my soul. Pause.
Then, all the doubts are dispelled,
and one sees the Lord contained in all the places.
His fear of death is dispelled;,
and he obtains the Primal Place.
Then is removed the subservience of all.
On whose brow there is such a writ,
he alone attains God's Name and crosses the dreadful fire ocean.
He acquires an abode in his own home,
and he enjoys the Lord's relish of relishes.
His hunger is appeased,
Says Nanak, he is absorbed in the Lord, O my soul.
Asawari 5th Guru.
Sing God, God, God, and His praises, O man!
and Him thou utter with the music of equipoise.
The saints tongue repeats Lord's Name.
This, I have heard, is the only way to emancipation.
Through high merit alone this way is found, O my soul. Pause.
Search Him the silent sages.
The Lord is the Master of all.
In the Dark age, difficult is to obtain the Lord in this world.
He is the Destroyer of distress.
The Lord is the Fulfiller of Desires, O my soul.
My soul, serve thou that Lord.
He is Unrealizable and Inscrutable.
Do thou bear love with Him.
He perishes and dies not.
Thought the Guru, He is known.
Nanak, my mind is propitiated with the Lord, O my soul.
Asawari 5th Guru.
Grasp the protection of one God.
Utter thou the hymns of the Guru.
Submit thou to the Lord's true fiat.
Receive the Name treasure in thy mind.
Thou shalt thou dwell in peace, O my soul. Pause.
He who in life is dead,
crosses the terrible world ocean.
He, who become the dust of all men's feet,
him alone call thou the fearless one.
All worries are eliminated,
with the saints instruction, O my soul.
The man, whose happiness is in the Name,
he suffers not in any pain.
He who listens to Lord God's praise,
all the men obey him.
Nanak, profitable is his coming into the world,
he who is pleasing to the Lord, O my soul
Asawari 5th Guru.
Meeting together let us sing God's praise,
and obtain the supreme status.
They, who obtain that Nectar,
attain to all the occult power.
Who remain wakeful night and day (remembering him),
Nanak, they are very fortunate, O my soul. Pause.
Let us shampoo saints feet,
and cleanse our evil intellect.
By becoming the dust of his slaves feet,
no suffering befalls the man.
Entering the sanctuary of God's devotees,
the mortal never suffers birth and death.
They alone become eternal,
who utter God's Name, O my soul.
Thou art my friend and intimate, (O my Guru).
Implant God's Name within me,
without him, there is not another.
within my mind I remember Him.
Even for an instant I forget Him not.
How can I do without Him?
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru.
O Nanak, my soul ever repeats Lord's Name.
Asawari 5th Guru.
Thou art the cause of causes,
I can think not another.
What Thou doesn't that comes to pass.
I, therefore, sleep in poise and peace.
My mind has become patient,
since the time I have fallen at Lord's door, O my soul. Pause.
I have joined the society of saints,
and have full control over my sense organs.
From the time I am rid of self conceit,
since then my suffering have ceased.
The Lord has shown mercy unto me.
The Creator has preserved my honour, O my soul.
Undersatnd that happiness lies in,
accepting what God does.
No one is bad.
Become thou the dust of saints feet.
He whom He Himself preserves,
tastes God's elixir, O my soul.
He who has none to call his own,
that Lord is of him.
The Lord understands the condition of all the hearts.
He knows all the things.
O Lord, save the defaulters,
this is Nanak's earnest supplication, O my soul.
Asa 5th Guru Ek Tuke.
O my stranger soul.
Listen to the message. Pause.
To which thou art attached,
all that Thou shalt leave and depart.
These things appear like a dream,
to him who takes God's Name.
Forsaking God, who cling to another,
they run towards transmigration.
The slaves, who attain to Lord God, they
continue to live.
He to whom the Lord is merciful,
become His devoted slave, O Nanak.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Asa Measure 9th Guru.
To whom shall I tell the condition of man's mind?
Engrossed in avarice and harbouring hope of wealth, he hastens in runs to ten directions. Pause.
For the sake of comfort, he suffers great pain and waits upon every individual.
Like a dog, he wanders from door to door and is not conscious of Lord's meditation.
He loses his human life in vain and is not ashamed of men's laughter.
Nanak, why do thou not sing God's praises, so that the evil intellect of the body may depart?
Asa Measure. 1st Guru. Ashtpadis.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is attained.
Descending the difficult precipice of sin, man should bathe in the tank of virtue,
and without uttering and saying anything, should sing God's praise.
Like water in the atmosphere, he should remain absorbed in the Lord.
Churning the true pleasures, he ought to secure the Supreme Name Nectar
Hear thou such a Divine Comprehension, O my mind.
The Lord is fully abiding in all the places. Pause.
Death agonises him not, who makes truthfulness and his fast religious vow,
and burns his wrath with True Guru's hymns.
He abides in the tenth gate and assumes the meditative mood.
By coming in contact with the Guru, the philosopher stone, he obtains the supreme status.
The mortal should churn the essence of righteousness for his soul's sake.
And he should bathe in the brimful tank (of the Name), to wash off his filth.
Man becomes like Him, with whom he is imbued.
What the Creator Himself does, that comes to pass.
Through the ice like cold Guru, one should extinguish him mind's fire.
He should apply the ashes of Lord's hearty service to his body.
Let his living in the home of peace be his religious sect.
The pure Gurbani be his playing upon the flute.
The Divine wisdom in the mind is the sublime supreme Nectar,
and the Contemplation on Gurbani the bath holy places.
The worship consists in vision the Lord's abode within.
God is the Blender of human light with the Divine Light.
He who has the wisdom of loving the One Lord, is delighted with the Divine bliss.
Such a great man merges into the Lord who occupies the throne.
In Obedience to Lord's will, he toils in Divine service.
The Inscrutable Lord cannot be comprehended.
As the lotus is begotten in water and remains away from water,
similarly the Lord's light is fully contained in the world ocean.
Whom should I call close to, and whom far from God?
Beholding Him just present, I sing the praise of God, the Treasure of virtue.
Within and without there is none other than God.
Whatever pleases Him, that ultimately, comes to pass.
Hear thou, O Bharthari (yogi), Nanak says this after due deliberation.
The pure Name alone is my mainstay.
Asa 1st Guru.
Inspite of all worship, all penance and all cleverness,
man wanders in wilderness and finds not the way.
Without knowing the Lord, none is approved,
without the Name, one has ashes thrown on his head.
True is the Master, The world comes and goes
Becoming the slave of God through the Guru, the mortal is emancipated. Pause.
The worldly is bound by temporal attachment and many desires.
Under Guru's instruction some become desireless.
Within them is the Name and their heart lotus blooms.
They have no fear of death.
The world is conquered by woman and it loves the damsel.
Attached to sons and wife man forgets the Name.
He wastes away his human life in vain and loses the game.
The service of the True Guru, is the best avocation.
He, who utters words of pride in public,
never applies the unction of salvation to his heart.
He, who burns the love for wealth, under Guru's instruction,
ever, meditates on the immaculate Name in his heart.
He restrains his wandering mind and keeps it under control.
The association of such a Gursikh is obtained by God's grace.
Without the Guru, man goes astray and continues coming and going.
if the Lord show mercy, He unites man in His union.
If I describe the Beautiful Being, I cannot find His worth.
If I discourse the Ineffable Lord, I cannot find His worth.
All pain and pleasure are in Thy will, O God.
All pain is eradicated by the True Name.
The man (on understanding Name), as if plays upon the musical instruments without feet.
If he understanding the Name, he shall behold the True Lord, then.
when the True One is within, all happiness is with the man.
Showing His mercy, the Preserver preserves the mortal.
He, who effaces his self, knows the three worlds.
He, who understands Gurbani, is absorbed in the True Lord.
Meditate on the One Name, O man, with an uninterrupted love.
Nanak, blessed is Lord, the Embellisher of the mortal.
Asa 1st Guru.
There are innumerable writings and by continually writing them people take pride.
If the man accepts the truth, then alone he can understands and describe it.
Mere words of mouth and recurring reading is an unwarrantable load.
There are numberless scriptures, but the Infinite Lord remains ineffable.
O man, understand thou that the True Lord alone is such.
Know that birth and death is subject to Lord's will. Pause.
Because of the love of wealth, the world, is hand-cuffed by death's courier.
The hand-cuffed one is released by remembering the Name.
The Guru is the giver of peace, search thou not another.
In this world and the world beyond he shall stand by thee.
If man dies through Guru's word, then does he come to embrace love for the One Lord.
If he eats the uneatable, then is his doubt dispelled.
By abiding the Name in the mind, one is emancipated while alive.
If man acts upon Guru's words, then he merges into the True Lord.
Who created the earth, tenth gate and sky,
and who established all, and then disestablishes what He had established.
That Lord Himself is contained among all.
He consults none and Himself forgives.
Thou, O Lord art an ocean, brimful with gems and rubies.
Thou art pure true and the treasure of merits.
By meeting spiritual guide, the Guru, man enjoys peace.
The Lord Himself is the sole sovereign and the sole Minister.
The world is chained and emancipated is he, who stills his ego.
Rare in the world is the gnostic, who is a man of action.
Rare in the world is a scholar who is a man of deliberation,
without meeting the True Guru, all wander in pride.
The world is unhappy, and rare is the man who is happy.
Because of becoming lustful, the world is diseased and weeps that it has no merit (virtue).
The world is born and then, losing its honour, it dies.
He, who turns a Guru-ward understands the reality.
Dear in price and unbearable in weight is the Lord.
By Guru's instruction, enshrine thou in thy mind the Immovable and Undeceivable Lord.
Man meets Him through love and he who works in Lord's fear becomes pleasing to Him.
Meek Nanak says this after due deliberation.
Asa 1st Guru.
When a man dies, the five passions begin to mourn, meeting together.
By stilling his self-conceit, man washes off his filth with God's Name.
He, who knows and understands this, enters the home of bliss.
Without such an understanding, the man loses all his honour.
who dies and who does weep for him?
Thou, O Lord, art the cause of causes, and thy order is over the head of all. Pause.
A few weep for the dead for the sake of his trouble.
He alone weeps who has his own troubles.
He, who is affected, his condition, He, the Lord, knows.
Whatever the Creator Himself does, that comes to pass.
He, who remains dead in life, is saved and he saves others, too.
Utter thou the victory of the World-Lord, by seeking whose shelter the supreme rank is attained.
I am a sacrifice unto feet of the True Guru.
The Guru is the ship and with his Gurbani, the dreadful ocean is crossed.
The Lord Himself is fear-free and his light is contained amongst all.
Without the Name, defilement and untouchability cling to the world.
Through viciousness, the man is ruined, so why should he clamour and weep?
Without hearing the music of Lord's meditation, man continues coming and going.
It is only the friends, who really bemoans the dead one.
The men of three qualities continue weeping for ever.
Disregarding pain and peace, fix thou thy mind on the Lord.
Dedicate thy body and soul to the love of the Lord.
Within the various and countless bodies, the one Lord is contained.
There are many rituals and faiths, whose number is beyond computation.
Without Lord's fear and devotion, the human life is vain.
By singing God's praises, the supreme wealth is obtained.
The Lord Himself dies and kills He Himself too.
God Himself creates and having established, He disestablishes.
Thou, O Lord, hast created the world and Thine is the luminous personality.
He, who ponders over the Name, meets the Lord and in it, there is no doubt.
Defilement is in the burning fire, which consumes the world.
Defilement is in water, land and all the places.
In defilement, the mortals are born and die, O Nanak,
By Guru's grace, man drinks God's elixir.
Asa Measure 1st Guru.
He, who reflects on his self assays the Name jewel.
With a glance of his, the Perfect, Guru saves the man.
If the Guru is pleased, the mind is comforted by the mind itself.
The Guru is such a banker, who assays his Sikhs.
By the true glance of his, the mortals is blessed with the love of the Unique Lord and is saved. Pause.
Sublime is the capital of the stainless Lord's Name.
Immaculate is the wise-man, who is imbued with truth.
By singing His praises, He easily enshrines in his heart-home the Exalted Creator.
He who burns his hopes and desire with the Name,
utters and causes others to utter the Name.
Through the Guru, he finds the way to God's presence and home.
His body becomes gold by God's incomparable light.
He beholds Lord's beauty in all the three worlds.
That true and inexhaustible wealth is, now in my lap.
The Lord pervades in the five elements, three worlds, nine regions and the four directions.
Exercising His power, He is supporting the earth and the sky.
The Lord brings back the outgoing mind.
whoever is a fool sees not with his (mind's) eyes.
His language gives not pleasure and he understands not what is told to him.
Intoxicated with vice, he quarrels with the world.
With good association, the man becomes good.
He runs after virtues and washes off his sins.
Without serving the Guru, poise is not obtained.
Lord's Name is the diamond jewel and ruby.
The mind-pearl is that Lord's wealth.
Nanak, the Lord assays the man and makes him happy with a glance.
Asa 1st Guru.
Through the Guru, divine knowledge, concentration and mind's satiation are attained.
Through the Guru, the Master's mansion is recognised.
Through the Guru, God's Name become manifest in man's mind.
This is how the Lord's devotional worship is deliberated upon.
Through the Guru, the True Name of God, the enemy of pride, is obtained. Pause.
The man, day and night, remains pure and abides in a exalted place.
He acquires the true knowledge of the three worlds.
Through the True Guru, Lord's fiat is recognised.
He enjoys true bliss and no woe befalls him.
He relishes the Nectarean gnosis and the supreme essence.
His five evil passions are stilled and he becomes the happiest of all the men.
Thy light is contained among all and every one is Thine, O Lord.
He Himself unites and separates.
Whatever the Creator Himself does, that alone happens.
He Himself demolishes and builds and by His order obliterates He.
Whatever Pleases Him, happens under His fiat.
Without the Guru, none attains the Perfect Lord.
In childhood and old age, the mortal lacks understanding.
In the prime of youth, he is drowned in pride.
Without the Name, what can he, the fool, attain?
Man knows Him not devotionally, to whom belong the provision and wealth.
Gone amiss in doubt he regrets afterwards.
Around the neck of the most foolish man is death's noose.
Seeing the world drowning, I ran away in fear, then.
Very fortunate are they, whom True Guru has saved.
Nanak, they cling to the Guru's Feet.
Asa 1st Guru.
Men sing religious songs but in their mind is wickedness.
They sing music and call themselves divines.
Without the Name, their mind is false and evil.
Where goest thou? O man, remain at home.
The Guru-wards are satiated with the Lord's Name, and by searching, they easily find God. Pause.
Lust, wrath, worldly attachment are in the body,
and greed, avarice and ego are within man's mind, so he is in pain.
How can the soul be consoled without the Name of the Omnipresent the Lord.
He, who laves internally knows the True Lord.
The pious person knows the condition of his mind.
Without the True Name, Lord's presence cannot be realised.
He, who merges his from into the Formless Lord,
and abides in the Truest of the true, mighty Unknowable Lord,
that man enters not the womb-existences again.
Go thou there, where thou may obtain the Name.
By Guru's grace, do thou the good deeds.
Imbued with the Name, sing thou the praise of God.
Through Guru's service I have understood myself.
The peace giving Nectarean Name, now abides within my mind.
Night and day I remain absorbed in Gurbani and the Name.
If my Lord attaches some one to God, then can One become attached to Him.
If one stills ego, he remains awake to the Name.
Here and afterwards there, he ever enjoys peace.
The mercurial mind knows not the way.
The filthy apostate understands not the Name.
The pious person utters the Immaculate Name.
I make supplication before reverend God, that,
I may acquire an abode in the society of the saintly persons.
Such a saintly society removes sins and sufferings and blesses with the light of God's Name.
By reflecting over Guru's gospel, I have come to enshrine great love for good conduct.
Through the hymns of the True Guru I have recognised the One Lord.
With Lord's Name, Nanak's soul is imbued.
Asa 1st Guru.
The mind of the mammon-worshipper is a mad elephant.
It wanders about distracted in the forest of worldly attractions.
Under the pressure of death, is goes here and there.
Under Guru's instruction, it shall find its home.
Without the Guru's word the mind finds not the place of rest.
Remember thou the Lord's very pure Name and relinquish the bitter pride. Pause.
Say, how can this stupid soul be rescued?
without (true) understanding, it shall suffer the torture of death.
The Lord Himself pardons and unites man with the True Guru.
The True One crushes and destroys the tortures of death.
This mind does the deeds and this very mind practises truthfulness.
This mind is born of the five elements.
This foolish soul is perverse and avaricious.
By remembering the Name, through the Guru, the soul becomes beautiful.
Through the Guru, the soul finds that Lord's abode.
Through the Guru, it comes to posses the knowledge of the three worlds.
This soul is a Yogi and an enjoyer and practises penance.
By means of the Guru, it itself understands the Lord God.
Sometimes the soul renounces the world and gets rid of egotism.
To every soul, desire and duality are attached.
He who, through the Guru, quaffs Divine elixir,
in His court and mansion the Sovereign Lord saves the honour of him.
This mind is the King and the hero of battles.
By meditating on the Name, through the Guru, this soul becomes fearless.
Overpowering and arresting the five evil passions
and holding ego in its grip, the soul confines them to one place.
By Guru's grace, the soul renounces other songs and relishes.
By Guru's grace this soul awakens to Lord's service.
Reflecting over the accepting the Guru's instruction, the soul hearts the heavenly music.
By understanding itself, the soul becomes the Formless Lord.
This soul becomes pure in the court and presence of the Lord,
it comes to profess love for His devotional service through the Guru.
By Guru's grace, the soul, day and night, sings God's praise,
and realises that He, the Lord, is pervading all the hearts, since the very outset and at the beginning of ages.
With the Nectar of Lord's Name, this soul is intoxicated,
and through the Guru, it realises, God, the Home of all the essences.
For the sake of Lord's meditation, it ought to abide in the Guru's feet.
Nanak, is the slave of the slave of God's slave.
Asa 1st Guru.
When the body perishes, whose is called its wealth?
Without the Guru, how can the Lord's Name be obtained?
The wealth of the Lord's Name is my companion and helper.
Immaculate is he, who day and night, fixes his attention on God.
who is mind without the Lord's Name?
Deeming pain and pleasure alike, I forsake not the Name. The Lord pardons and blends me with Himself. Pause.
The fool loves gold and damsel.
Attached to duality he has forgotten the Name.
Him, whom Thou pardonest, Thou cause to repeat Thy Name.
Death's myrmidon cannot touch him, who sings God's praises.
My Omnipresent God, Thou art the Great Giver and the world cherisher.
As it pleases Thee, so do Thou preserve me, O merciful Master.
Under Guru's instruction, the Lord has become pleasing to my mind.
My afflictions are removed and pain is warded off.
There is no other medicine, charm and spell.
Lord God's remembrance destroyers sins.
Thou Thyself strayest the mortals and they forget Thy Name, O Lord.
Showering Thine benediction, Thou Thyself savest.
The soul is diseased with doubt differentiation and duality.
Without the Guru, one wanders in doubt and remembers the other.
To see the sight of the Guru amounts to be holding, the primal Lord.
without the Guru, hymns of what account is hue human life?
Beholding the wonderful Lord, I am greatly astonished.
Amongst all the hearts of demigods and men, the Lord is contained in the trance of equipoise.
The fully pervading Lord, I hold within my mind.
Equal to Thee, there is not another, O Lord.
For Thy worship Thy Name is uttered by mouth.
In the society of the saints and pious persons, the Lord abides.
Shattering his shackles, the mortal should meditate on God.
The Guru-ward are emancipated by the knowledge of God, acquired through the Guru.
Death's myrmidon and pain touch not him,
the man who is awake in the love of Lord Name.
God, the lover of His devotees, abides with His devotees.
Nanak, through God, love, the mortal is emancipated.
Asa 1st Guru. Ek Tuki.
He, who serves the Guru, knows the Lord.
By recognising the true Name his pain vanishes.
Meditate on the Lord, O my Mate and friend.
By serving the True Guru, thou shalt see the Lord with thine eyes. Pause.
Entanglements are mother, father and the world.
Entanglement are sons, daughters and wife.
Entanglements are the religious ceremonies, performed through pride.
Entanglement are the sons, wife and another's love in the mind.
Entanglement is the cultivation done by the cultivators.
For his ego man suffers punishment, and the King demands penalty from him.
Entanglement is trade without God's meditation.
The mortal is not satisfied with the extension of worldly love.
Entanglement is the perishable wealth, which the bankers amass.
Without God's meditation, the mortal becomes not acceptable.
Entanglement are Vedas, religious discussions and pride.
By the entanglements of worldly love and sins, the man perishes.
Nanak has sought the protection of the Lord's Name.
He, whom the True Guru saves, suffers no entanglement.
Asa Measure 1st Guru. Astpadis.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is attained.
The heads, that are adorned with tresses, and whose partings are filled with vermilion.
Those heads are shaves with scissors and the throats are choked with dust.
These ladies lived in palaces, but now they are not allowed to sit even near the palaces.
Hail, father! hail! hail! O Primal Lord,
Thy limit is not known Thou continuously makest and beholdest various scenes. Pause.
When they were married, their bridegrooms seemed handsome beside them.
The came seated in palanquins, which were adorned with ivory.
Water was sacrificed over their heads and glittering fans were waved just above them.
They were given lacs of rupees, when they sat and lacs were offered when they stood.
They are coconuts and dates and enjoyed on the couches.
The ropes are put around their necks and their strings of pearls are broken.
Both wealth and youthful beauty, which afforded them pleasure have now become their enemies.
The order was given to the soldiers, who having dishonored them took them away.
If it please Him, He grants greatness, If it please Him He awards punishment.
If the mortal meditates, on the Lord before hand, then why should he receive punishment.
The rulers had lost their conscience in merry making, sensual spectacles and revelments.
When Babar's rules was proclaimed, then no (Pathan) price ate his food.
Some lost their five times of prayer, and of some the time of worship is gone.
Without sacred squares, how shall the Hindu women, now bathe and apply frontal marks?
They never remembered their own Ram and now they are not allowed to utter even 'Khuda'.
Some return to their homes, and some meeting them, inquire after the safety of their relations.
In the lot of some, it is so written, that they sit and bewail in pain.
Whatever pleases Him, that alone does happen, O Nanak! What is man?
Asa 1st Guru.
Where are those sports, stables and horses.
Where are drums and bugles? Where are those sword-belts and chariots? Where are those scarlet uniforms?
Where are those mirrored finger-rings and beautiful faces, which are no longer seen here.
This world is Thine and Thou art the Lord of Universe.
In a moment Thou establishest and disestablishest. Thou distributest wealth as Thou pleasest. Pause.
Where are those houses, gates, seraglios and mansions and where are those beautiful caravansaries?
Where is that comfortable couch enjoying damsel, by seeing whom one would get no sleep?
Where are those betel-leaves, betel-sellers and charming fairies? They have vanished like the shadow.
For this wealth many are ruined and it has disgraced many.
Without misdeeds it is not amassed, and it departs not with the dead.
He, whom the Creator Himself destroys, him, He first deprives of virtue.
When they heard of invasion of emperor Babar, then millions of religious leaders failed to halt him.
He burned houses, resting places and strong palaces and the princes, cut into pieces, he causes to roll in dust.
No Mughal became blind and no one wrought any miracle.
There raged a battle between the Mughals and Pathans and the sword was wielded in the battle-field.
They, the Mughals, aimed and fired their guns and they, the Pathans attacked with their elephants.
They, whose letter has been torn in God's court, must die, O My brethren.
There were the women of Hindus, Muslims, Bhattis and Rajputs.
The robes of some were torn from head to foot, and some had their dwellings in the cremation ground.
How did they, whose majestic husbands came not home pass their night?
The Creator, of Himself, acts and causes others to act. To whom should we complain?
Weal and woe, O God, are according to Thy will. To whom should man go to wail?
The Commander issues His command and is pleased. Nanak, the mortal obtains, what is destined for him.
Asa kafi 1st Guru. Ashtpadis.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
As a herdsman is in the pasture for a short time, so is the mortal in the world.
The men practise falsehood and build their hearth and home.
Awake, awake ye sleepers and see that soul, the dealer, is departing.
Build houses, if ye hast to stay here for ever and aye.
If some one were to know it, the body shall fall and the soul shall depart.
Why criest thou Alas, alas That Lord is and shall be.
Thou bewailest for him, but who will bewail for thee?
My brethren, ye are engrossed in worldly affairs and practise falsehood.
He, the dead one, hears not at all. You only proclaim unto other people.
Only He, who has lulled him to sleep, O Nanak, shall awaken him.
If man know his Real Home, then he sleeps not.
If the outgoing man has taken some wealth with him,
then thou too amass wealth. See understand and realise.
Do thy dealings, gain thy object lest thou should regret afterwards.
Forsake vice and pratise virtue, so shalt thou obtain the Real Thing.
Sow the seed of truth in the soil of faith and practise thou the tillage of such a type.
Then alone thou shalt be known as a trader, if thou departest after taking profit.
If it be Lord's grace, the mortal meets the True Guru and understands his instruction.
He then utters the Name, hears the Name and deal only in the Name.
As is the profit, so is the loss. This has been the way of the world.
Whatever pleases Him, that is Nanak's glory.
Asa 1st Guru.
I have searched in the four directions, but no one is mine.
If it please thee, O my Lord, Thou art mine and all Thine.
I have no other door than Thine Whom shall I salute?
I possess Thee alone as my Lord. Thine True Name is in my mouth. Pause.
Some serve men of miracles to become adepts and religious preceptors and they crave for wealth and supernatural Power.
I should not forget the One Name, is the instruction of true Guru.
What for do the renunciators, revellers and mendicants in tatters roam in foreign land?
They understand not Guru's instruction and the excellent reality within them.
The scholars, teachers and astrologers, ever, read the mythological books.
They know not the Thine within The Supreme Lord is concealed in the heart.
Some penitents perform penitence in the woods and some, ever dwell at the pilgrim places.
Thou unenlightened people understand not themselves, and they have become ascetic for nothing.
Putting in a effort, some control their semen and call themselves as celibates.
Without the Guru's word they are not saved and they wander in transmigration.
Some are householders, Lord's slaves and strivers after truth and are attached to Guru's instruction.
They hold fast the Name, charity and ablution and remain awake in God's meditation.
Through the Guru, the gate of Lord mansion is known and the man recognises that place.
Nanak never forgets the Name and his mind is reconciled to the True One.
Asa 1st Guru.
Nipping the desires in the very mind, the man assuredly crosses the terrible ocean.
Thou, O merciful Lord, wert in the beginning and in the primal age. I have entered Thine asylum.
Thou art the Giver, I am a beggar of Thine. My God, grant me a sight of Thee.
By meditating on the Name, through the Guru, the mind mansion rings with joy. Pause.
When one renounces the false greed, then does one come to realise the truth.
Be absorbed in Guru's instruction and thou shalt know the Excellent Thing.
This mind is a greedy King and is enamoured of avarice.
Under Guru's instruction, greed is removed, and man arrives at an understanding with God.
By sowing crop in the calcareous soil, how can one obtain profit?
The perverse person is not pleased with truth. The liar is buried in falsehood.
Renounce avarice, O ye blind, for greed brings great anguish.
If the True Lord abides within the mind, the poison of ego is removed.
Leave aside the evil way of worldliness, my brethren, or ye shall be plundered.
Day and night praise the Name under the Guru's protection.
An apostate is stone and a rock. Accursed and insipid is his life.
Howsoever much the stone be kept under Water, it remains dry at the core.
God's Name is wealth and the Perfect Guru has given it to me.
He, who forgets not the Name, churns and drinks the Nectar, O Nanak.
Asa 1st Guru.
The travelers depart via a different route.
The world is engrossed in worldly affairs and loves not the truth.
Why to wander about, and why to make a search, when Gurbani shows the Lord to us?
Having renounced egoism and worldly attachment, I have arrived at my own Home. Pause.
Through truth the True One is met. Through falsehood He is not obtained.
Fixing attention on the True Lord, man comes not into the world, again.
Why doest thou weep for the dead? Thou knowest not how to weep.
Wail in love while praising the True Lord, and recognise His command.
Fruitful or Renowned is the advent of him, who is destined by the commander to receive the maintenance of the Name.
By realising the Lord's will, the mortal obtains the profit.
If it please the Commander, man goes to His court, dressed in the robe of honour.
By His order, the God's slaves strike at the mortal's head.
Enshrining truth and justice in the mind, man gains profit.
Then one obtains what it written in his lot and stills his ego.
The infidels are thrashed and are ruined in wranglings.
The cheats are plundered by falsehood. They are chained and dispatched.
Enshrine the Lord in thy mind, then, thou shalt not have to repent.
If man acts up to Guru's teaching, the Lord pardons his sins.
Nanak prays for the True Name, which is obtained, through the Guru.
Without Thee I have none else Look Thou with favour on me.
Ass 1st Guru.
Why should, I go searching in the woods, when my home is a verdant forest.
The True Name has come quickly to my heart and has settled there.
Wherever I look, there He is. I know no one else.
Performing Guru's service, the Lord's presence is realised. Pause.
When man becomes pleasing to His mind, then alone the True Lord blends him with Himself.
He, who ever walks according to Lord's will, sinks into His lap.
The mind, wherein the True Lord abides, that mind alone flourishes.
The Lord Himself grants greatness and His gifts exhaust not.
How can man obtain Lord's court, by serving every Dick and Tom?
If one boards a boat of stone, he shall be drowned with its cargo.
Sell thy soul unto the Guru and surrender Thy head along with.
If is through the Guru, that the 'real Thing is recognised and one's own home is found.
People discuss births and death. That Creator has done all this.
They who remain dead by stilling their ego, die not, again.
One should accomplish the task which the Primal Lord has enjoined upon him.
If man, meeting the True Guru, surrenders his soul unto him, who can appraise his worth?
That Master is the Assayer of the mind jewels and He sets the price thereof.
Nanak, true is the glory of him, in whose heart the Lord dwells.
Asa 1st Guru.
They who have forgotten the Name go astray in another's love and superstition.
They, who let go the root and cling to the branches, what do they obtain? Ashes.
Without the Name, if one were to understand, how can one be emancipated?
If man be holy, he is saved, then the perverse person loses his honour. Pause.
Perfect is the intellect of those, who serve the one Lord, O brother.
The slave of God takes shelter in Him, who was in the beginning, and in the primal age, and who is the Immaculate One.
My Master is one, and there is not another, O brother.
By the True Lord's grace, celestial bliss is obtained.
Without the Guru, none has obtained God, though many may say and assert so.
The Lord Himself shows the way and fixes true devotional service in man's mind.
Even if an apostate be instructed, he still goes to the wilderness.
Without God's Name, he shall not be saved, and shall sink into hell after death.
He, who repeats not God's Name, wanders in birth and death.
Without serving the Guru, His worth cannot be realised.
Whatever service God causes man to do, he does exactly the same.
The Lord Himself acts, whom else should I mention? He beholds His own greatness.
He alone, performs Guru's service, whom the Lord Himself causes so to performs.
Nanak, by surrendering his head, the man is emancipated and receives honour in God's court.
Asa 1st Guru.
Beautiful is the Supreme Lord and beautiful is His Gurbani.
By the Greatest good luck, the True Guru is met, through whom the immortal status is obtained.
I am a menial of Thine menials. I am Thy servile servant, O my Master.
As Thou Keepest me, so do I live. Thy Name is in my mouth. Pause.
For Thy vision, I have a great thirst, and by accepting Thine will the mortal becomes pleasing to Thy mind.
Greatness is in the hand of my Lord, and through His command honour is obtained.
Deem not the True Lord afar. He is within us.
Wherever I behold, there I find my Lord pervading. How can I ascertain Thy worth?
He does all by Himself, He Himself undoes, and He Himself sees His glory.
Be becoming pious, the Lord is seen. Like this His worth is evaluated.
By performing Guru service, man reaps profit while alive.
If it be so pre-ordained, then, alone, one obtains the True Guru.
The perverse ever suffer loss and wander in doubt.
The blind infidel remembers not the Lord. How can he obtain His sight?
Then alone man's birth in this world is accounted profitable, If he imbibes love for the True Lord.
Meeting the Guru, the mortal becomes an invaluable object, and his light, merges into the Lord's light.
Day and night he remains detached and renders service unto the Primal Being.
Nanak, they, who are imbued with God's Feet, remain contented with His Name.
Asa 1st Guru.
However much I may describe the Lord, I cannot know His limit.
Thou alone art the prop of the propless, and my powerful strength.
Nanak's sincere prayer, is, that he may be adorned with the True Name.
When self-conceit is stilled, and understanding is obtained then one God, through Guru's teaching. Pause.
Abandoning egoism and pride, man gathers discrimination.
When the mortal is pleased with the Lord, He gives him the victual of the True Name.
Day and night remain thou satiated with the Name, that is the true service.
No calamity befalls him, who lives according to the will of the Commander.
He who submits to the Lord's order, is consigned to His treasury.
The counterfeit find no place, They mix with the dirty ones.
Ever and ever the genuine coins are taken care of the with them true merchandise is purchased.
The false ones are not seen in Lord's treasury. They are seized and cast into the fire again.
They, who understanding their soul, are themselves the Supreme soul.
The Lord alone is the Nectar tree, which bears the ambrosial fruit.
They, who taste the Nectareous fruit, remain sated with truth.
They, who tongue enjoys Divine elixir, have no doubt and separation.
By Lord's order and through past actions thou came in this world. Ever walk thou in His will.
Grant unto Nanak, the virtueless one, the merit and greatness of Thy True Name, O Lord.
Asa 1st Guru.
He, whose mind is imbued with God's Name, tells the truth.
What do people lose, if I become pleasing to Thee, O Lord?
As long as there are life and breath, meditate thou on the True Lord.
The profit of singing God's praise is received and the man gathers gladness. Pause.
True is Thine service. Grant it to me, O thou Merciful Master.
I live by admiring Thee, and Thou art my mainstay and support.
I am Thine slave and a porter at Thy gate Thou slave knowest my pain.
Wondrous is Thy devotional service. Which removes all pain.
The Guru-wards know that by uttering God's Name. they shall abide in His court and presence.
True and acceptable is the time, when one recognises the Lord's Name.
They, who practise truth, contentment and love, obtain the viaticum of God's Name.
From thy mind, banish thou thy vice and the True One shall grant thee truth.
The True Lord inspires the true with the True love of His.
The Lord Himself administers justice, the one which pleases Him.
True is the gift, which the True and Merciful Master bestows.
Day and night I serve Him, priceless is whose Name.
Thou art sublime and I am groveling but I am called Thine serf.
Cast Thy merciful glance on me, Nanak, that I, who am separated from Thee, may meet Thee, O True Lord.
Asa 1st Guru.
How can man's transmigration cease, and how can he meet the Lord?
Great is the agony of birth and death, and doubt and duality ever agonise the mortal.
Of what avail is the life without the Name? Detestable and accursed is the cleverness.
He who serves not the saintly True Guru, his the God's service pleases not. Pause.
Then alone do coming and going cease, if one meets the Perfect Guru.
He gives the capital of the wealth of Lord's name, wherewith the false doubt is destroyed.
Hail! Hail unto the man who remains in the society of the pious persons and sings Lord's praises.
God the Limitless Primal Lord, is obtained through the Guru.
This world play is fashioned like the mimicry of a buffoon.
For a moment and trice one sees the show but it takes no time in disappearing.
With the dice of falsehood and egotism the mortals play the dice-game of self -conceit.
The whole world loses but wins he who ponders over Guru's hymns.
As is the stick in the hand of the blind so is God's Name with me.
Night day and morn Lord God's Name is my support.
As Thou keepest me, O God so do I live, Thy Name is my mainstay.
Thy serf has found the Name which is the succourer in the end and door to salvation.
The pain of birth and death is removed by uttering the Name of God the Enemy of pride.
Nanak the Perfect Guru delivers the mortal, who forgets not God's Name.
Asa 3rd Guru. Ashtpadi.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
The six Shashtras, four Vedas and the twenty-seven Simritis are contained in the ocean of Thy Name and the Ganges is contained in Thine holy feet, O Lord.
Human intellect can understand the world of three qualities or branches, but Thou O primal Lord, art altogether wondrous.
Slave Nanak, meditates on His Feet and utters the ambrosial Gurbani. Pause.
Thirty-three crores of gods are Thine servants, thou givest wealth and supernatural powers and Thou art the prop of life.
His forms cannot be comprehended. What can men do by narrating and discussing?
In every age, Thine are the three qualities and Thine the four sources of production.
If Thou be gracious then does the man obtain the supreme status and utters the ineffable discourse of Thine, O Lord.
Thou art the Creator, all are created by Thee. What can any mortal do?
He alone, on whom Thou showerest Thy grace, gets absorbed in truth.
Every One, who comes and goes, utters Thy Name.
If it please Thee, then alone the mortal understands Thee, through the Guru Else the self conceited wander in ignorance.
The four Vedas Thou gave to Brahma that he may continuously read and reflect on them.
His command the wretch understands not and enters hell and heaven.
In every age the Lord creates the Kings who are sung of as His incarnations.
Even they have not found His limits. What shall I then say and reflect upon?
Thou art true, all that Thou doest is true. If Thou grant me the truth then will I expound it.
He whom Thou causeth to understand Thy truth, gets easily absorbed in Thy Name.
Asa 3rd Guru.
The True Guru has dispelled my doubt.
He has enshrined the Name of the Immaculate God within my mind.
By meditating on the Lord I have obtained the eternal happiness.
O my soul, hear thou the real Divine knowledge.
The Giver knows thy entire condition and it is through the Guru that the Name treasure of attained. Pause.
The greatness of meeting the True Guru is this,
that it has quenched the fire of worldly love and desire,
and now imbued with equipoise, I sing God's praise.
Without the Perfect Guru none knows the Lord.
Others are engrossed in wealth and temporal love.
Through the Guru the mortal receives God's Name and the Divine Gurbani.
Guru's service is the essence and the excellent penance of all the penances.
The reverend Lord then abides in man's mind and all his suffering departs.
Then at the True Gate he looks true.
By Guru's service, man acquires the knowledge of the three worlds,
and recognising his ownself he obtains that God.
Through the True Gurbani the mortal gets into the Lord's palace.
By Guru's service man saves his generations,
and keeps the Immaculate Name enshrined in his mind.
He is bedecked with true glory in the True Court.
Very fortunate are they whom the Guru puts to his service.
Night and day they remain absorbed in Lord's meditation and firmly grasp the True Name.
Through the Name all the lineages (generations) are emancipated.
Nanak gives vent to the true thought.
Keep thou, O man, God's Name clasped to thy heart.
Becoming imbued with God's worship the gate of salvation is obtained.
Asa 3rd Guru.
Every one lives by cherishing hope upon hope.
Understanding His will man becomes desireless.
Many a man are asleep in hopes.
He alone wakes up, whom He awakens.
The True Guru has made me realise the Name and without the Name hunger goes not.
Through the Name the fire of desire is extinguished and by His will, His name is obtained. Pause.
In the Dark age, realise thou the Lord's praise.
With this worship one's ego is stilled.
By serving the True Guru, the man is approved.
Do thou realise Him who has created desire in thee.
What shalt thou offer to him who reads out Guru's hymns to thee;
and mercifully enshrines the Name in thy mind?
Shedding thy self-conceit offer thou thy this head unto him.
He who understands Lord's command, obtains eternal peace.
The Lord Himself does and Himself causes others to do.
Himself he installs the Name in mind of the pious person.
He Himself misleads and Himself puts on the right path.
Through the True Name the mortal merges into the True One.
True is the Lord and true is His Gurbani.
In every age the holy persons utter and recite it.
The self-willed are gone astray in worldly love and doubt.
Without the Name every one wanders about like a mad man.
Throughout the three worlds the one mammon holds its away.
The fool reads much and holds fast to duality.
He performs many ceremonies but suffers great pain.
By serving the True Guru alone he can obtain eternal peace.
The meditation on the name is a sweet Nectar.
By stilling his ego, the mortal can enjoy it night and day.
He, unto whom the Lord shows mercy is blessed with Divine bliss.
He is imbued with the Name and ever loves the True Lord.
Reflecting over Gurbani one should read and think of God.
By meditating on God and reading of Him man's self-conceit is stilled.
Imbued with His fear and hearty love, One ought to remember God.
Nanak, enshrine thou the Name in thy mind under Guru's instruction.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Asa Measure 3rd Guru. Ashtpadis, Kafi.
It is from the Guru that peace is evolved, which quenches the fire of desire.
From the Guru, God's Name and great glory are obtained.
The Lord's One Name, remember thou, O my brother.
Seeing the world in fire, I have hastened to God's sanctuary. Pause
From the Guru, gnosis is obtained and the mortal reflects upon the Supreme Reality.
Through the Guru man attains Lord's mansion and court and the treasure full of His devotional service.
Through the Guru, one dwells on the Name and realises the worth of Lord's meditation.
Through the Guru is the saint dedicated to God's praise and in his mind is enshrined the Infinite Name.
Through the Guru man attains happiness and never suffers any sorrow.
Through the Guru, one's ego is stilled and the soul becomes pure.
Meeting the True, man's self-conceit is removed and he obtains the knowledge of the three worlds.
He then beholds the Lord's immaculate Light diffused everywhere and his light blends with the Supreme Light.
When the Perfect Guru instructs, man's intellect becomes sublime.
From within he is cooled and pacified, and through the Lord's Name he obtains happiness.
If the Lord casts His merciful glance, then alone the perfect Guru is met.
Then all the sins and vices of the mortal are eradicated and he, again suffers not distress and obstruction.
The glories are in the Lord's hand. He Himself grants them and attaches man with the Name.
The Name treasure is enshrined, within Nanak's mind and so he is blessed with glory.
Asa 3rd Guru.
O man, my brother, hear and enshrine thou in Thy mind the Lord's Name and he Himself will come and meet thee.
Night and day embrace Lord's hearty worship and fix thy attention on the True One.
Remember thou the one Name, that thou may attain, O my brother.
Efface thy ego and duality and great shall be thy glory. Pause.
The gods, men and holy sages long for this meditation of the Lord, but without the True Guru it cannot be attained to.
The scholars and astrologers read the books, but they obtain not understanding.
In His hand, the Lord keeps all. Nothing else can be said (in this regard).
What the Lord Himself gives that the man receives. The Guru has imparted this understanding to me.
The mortals and creatures are all His and He belongs to all.
Whom should we call bad? If there be any other, then we may.
The order of the Lord alone holds away over all and no their head is the duty enjoined by the One Lord.
He Himself has led astray the beings, so within their heart abide avarice and vice.
Some He Himself has consecrated and they understand and remember Him.
His devotional service too, He donates unto them, and within them is the treasure of devotion.
The divine scholars know nothing but truth as they obtain true understanding.
Led astray by another, they go not astray. They know the True Lord.
Within their body are the five evil passions, but here the five act wisely.
Nanak, without the True Guru, they are not subdued. Through the Name, self-conceit is stilled.
Asa 3rd Guru.
In thy own home is everything, O man, and there is nothing without.
By Guru's grace everything is obtained and the doors of the mind are opened.
From the True Guru, God is attained, O brother.
The Name Treasure is within the man, which the perfect Sat Guru has shown it to me. Pause.
He, who is the purchaser of God's Name, finds it and obtains the gem of meditation.
He opens his mind, and through the Divine glance beholds the treasure of salvation.
Within the body are many mansions, and the soul dwells therein.
He obtains the fruit his heart desires and transmigrates not, again.
The assayers obtain understanding from the Guru and take care of the Name commodity.
The wealth of Lord's Name is priceless and through the Guru, a few obtain it.
By searching without, what can he find? The real Thing is within the home (heart), O brother.
The whole world wanders astray in doubt. The perverse persons lose his honour.
The false man leaves his own home and door and goes to another's home.
He is caught like a thief and without the Name, he suffers strokes.
They, who know their Home, are happy, my brother.
Through the Guru's glory, they recognise the Omnipresent Lord in their heart.
The Lord Himself gives gifts and Himself bestows understanding, and there is none to complain to.
Nanak, meditate thou on the Name, so shalt thou obtain glory in the True court.
Asa 3rd Guru.
They, who recognise their ownself, enjoy the sweet savour, O brother.
They who love the truth, get emancipated by quaffing God's elixir.
The reverend Lord is the purest of the pure, and abides in the pure mind.
Praising God under Guru's instruction, one remains unaffected by deadly passions. Pause.
Without the Name, man understands not his own self and sans it all are blind, O Brother.
By Guru, instruction there is mind's illumination and in the end God's Name is the man's succourer.
They abide in nothing but the Name and deal only in the Name.
In their heart is the Name, in their mouth is the Name, in their mouth is the Name, and God's Name they contemplate.
They hear the Name, believe in the Name and through the Name obtain glory.
Ever, ever they praise the Name and through the Name attain to Lord's mansion.
Through the Name is their mind illumined and through the Name they obtain honour.
By God's Name peace is procured, so I seek the Name's protection.
Without the Name no one is accepted and the apostate lose their honour.
They are tied and thrashed in the City of death and lose their life in vain.
All the men, to whom the Name is revealed through the Guru, serve the Guru, serve the Lord's Name.
The Name alone worship thou, O man, and through the Name honour is attained.
He alone receives the Name, to whom the Guru gives. By Guru's instruction the Name is realised.
Nanak, everything is under the sway of the Name. Through perfect good fortune, a few obtain the Name.
Asa 3rd Guru.
The deserted wives attain not their Husband's palace, nor know His relish.
They speak harshly, bow not to the Lord and relish another's love.
How can this mind come under control.
By Guru, grace it is restrained, and instructed in Divine Knowledge it returns home. Pause.
The true (faithful) wives, the Spouse Himself has adorned. They bear Him and affection.
They live according to True Guru's will and are, easily, decorated with the Lord's Name.
They ever enjoy their Beloved and their couch is truly embellished.
They are fascinated with the love of their Spouse and obtain peace on meeting their Darling.
Divine Knowledge is the incomparable decoration of the illustrious woman.
Through the love and affection of her Spouse, she is beautiful and the queen of all.
Among the happy wives the True, Unseen and Endless Lord has infused His love.
They serve their True Guru, with the genuine love and affection.
The chaste wife has decorated herself by wearing necklace of virtues, around her neck.
She applies the perfume of love to her body and within her mind is the jewel of meditation.
They, who are imbued with devotion are the exalted. The caste and honour result from the Name.
Without the Name, every one is of low caste and becomes the worm of ordure.
Every one goes about saying, I, I without God's Name egotism departs not.
Nanak, they who are dyed with the Name, lose pride and remain absorbed in the True Lord.
Asa 3rd Guru.
They who are imbued with the True One, are pure and ever true is their reputation.
Here they are renowned in every house, and hereafter, they are distinguished all the ages through.
O my beauteous joyful soul, adopt thou the true colour.
If thou art imbued with the beautiful hymn of the Guru, then this colour shall neither fade nor depart. Pause.
I am vile, filthy, exceedingly proud, sinful and attached to another's love.
Coming into contact with Guru, the Philosopher's stone, I am transformed into gold and am blended with the pure Light of the Infinite Lord.
Without the Guru, none is dyed with Lord's love. On meeting the Guru the dye is applied.
They, who are dyed with the fear and love of the Guru, merge into the praise of the True Lord.
Without fear, the love of God is not produced, not does the heart become pure.
Without Lord's fear the performance of rituals is false and the mortal finds no place of rest.
He, whom the Lord Himself imbues is so imbued and he meets the guild of saints.
From the Perfect Guru, the guild of saints is obtained and the man, easily embraces the glorious love of the True One.
Without the society of the righteous, all the men remain like beasts and animals.
They know not Him, who made them. Without the Name all are thieves.
Some purchase merits and sell off demerits through the Guru given equipoise and disposition.
Through Guru's service, the Name is attained and the Lord comes to abide in the mind.
The One Lord is the Giver of all. He assigns every one his occupation.
O Nanak, the Lord embellishes the man, by attaching him with His Name and by means of Gurbani blends him with Himself.
Asa 3rd Guru.
All people long for the Name, but he alone receives it to whom the Lord shows favour.
Without the Name there is all distress. He alone attains peace, in whose mind, the Lord implants His Name.
Thou O Lord art Infinite and Merciful. I crave for Thine refuge,
From the Perfect Guru, the greatness of the Name is obtained. Pause.
Within and without is the One Lord. He has created the world of various Kinds.
He Makes man do the work, according to His will, who else is there to talk about, O brother?
Knowledge and ignorance art Thine creation. Thou hast away over these.
Some Thou forgives and unitest with Thyself and some, the false ones, Thou smitest and drivest out of Thy court.
Some from the very beginning, are pure and pious, and them Thou hast attached with Thy Name.
By Guru's service, solace emanates and through the True Name man understands the Lord.
Some are crooked, filthy and whore-hunters. The Lord Himself has led them astray from the Name.
They have no comprehension, no wisdom, nor are they self-disciplined. They roam about wonder-struck.
He, on whom the Lord casts His merciful, glance, him He grants His faith.
Hearing the Immaculate Gurbani, this man attains truth, contentment and self-restraint.
Reading Lord's account, one cannot reach Him, and by saying and uttering, His limit is not found.
Through the Guru, Lord's worth is found and through the True Name His Knowledge is attained.
Rectify thou, this soul and body of thine by contemplating over Guru's hymns.
Nanak, within this body is the Name treasure, and through unbounded love for the Guru, this treasure is found.
Asa 3rd Guru.
The happy wives, who are adorned with Guru's word, are imbued in truth.
Contemplating over the True Name, they obtained that Beloved in their own home.
Through merits are the demerits forgiven, and the mortal comes to embrace love for God.
The bride then attains God as her Groom and this union is brought about by the Guru. Pause.
Some know not the spouse's presence and are gone astray in duality and doubt.
How can the discarded wives meet their Lord? Their life night passes in distress.
They within whose mind the One abodes, do the righteous deeds.
Night and day they serve God with equipoise and get absorbed in the True Lord.
The forsaken women wander in doubt and eat poison by telling lies.
They know not their Spouse and suffer agony on the forlorn couch.
The True Lord is but One, beware thou be beguiled by doubt, O my soul.
Consult the Guru, serve thy Lord and enshrine the pure True Name in thy mind.
The faithful bride ever obtains her Spouse and banishes her ego and self-conceit.
With her Beloved, she night and day remains attached, and attains joy on the True couch.
They who said "it is mine, it is mine have departed without obtaining anything".
The separated one attains not to her Lord's mansion and depart repenting in the end.
That Beloved of mine is only one and I bear love with one alone.
Nanak, if the damsel desires peace, the should then enshrine God's Name in her mind.
Asa 3rd Guru.
They whom the Lord has caused to quaff the Name-Nectar, naturally enjoy the relish thereof.
The True Lord is care-free and He has not even an iota of avarice.
The true Nectar rains and trickles down the mouth of the Guru-wards.
Even verdant is their soul and they automatically sing God's praise. Pause.
The perverse ever behave like discarded women and thy bewail standing at the door.
They who enjoy not the relish of their Dear Spouse, do that what is pre-ordained for them since the very beginning.
The Guru-ward sows the True Name and it sprouts. He deals in the True Name alone.
They, whom the Lord attaches to this profitable concern, them He grants the treasure of His devotional service.
The Guru-ward is ever the true bride and she bedecks herself with her Lord's fear and meditation.
Night and day she enjoys her Groom and keeps truth clasped to her mind.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who have enjoyed their beloved groom.
Eradicating self-conceit from within, they ever abide with their Spouse.
Through the love and affection of their spouse, their body and mind are cooled and their face becomes bright.
Having stilled her ego and avarice, the bride enjoys her Groom on the comfortable couch.
By infinite love for the Guru, the Lord mercifully comes into the bride's home.
The happy bride obtains One God, the Enemy of pride, as he Bridegroom.
The Guru gets all her sins pardoned, and the Uniter unites her with Himself.
Nanak, utter thou such words, hearing which thy Master may cherish love for thee.
Asa 3rd Guru.
When that Lord causes us to meet the True Guru, We obtain merits from him.
By remembering the Name with mental poise, Divine Knowledge is manifested.
O my Soul, think not God to be afar. Ever behold Him just close to thee.
Ever He hears, ever He beholds, and fully pervading is He in the world. Pause.
The pious persons understand their ownself, and they contemplate over the Lord single mindedly.
Ever they enjoy their Lord, and through the True Name they gather peace.
O my soul, none is thine. verify it by reflecting over the Guru's hymns.
Hasten thou into God's protection. Thou shalt thus obtain the door of salvation.
Hear thou the Name, understand thou the Name, and keep thou thy attention fixed on the True Name.
Through the Name still thy ego and obtain bliss in the Lord's true mansion.
In this age, the glory is of the Name without the Lord's Name glory is gained not.
The greatness of these worldly valuables lasts for four days, and it makes no delay in disappearing.
They who forget the Name, are dead, and shall continue dying.
They enjoy not God's Nectar, and sink into ordure.
Some the Lord Himself, night and say keeps attached with the Name. He pardons and unites them with Himself.
They practise truth, abide in truth and being truthful merge in truth.
Without the Name, the world hears and sees not, Being deaf and blind, it roams about at one large.
Without the Name, it shall come to grief. The Name is received through His will.
Pure and acceptable are the persons, who attach their mind to Guru's hymns.
Nanak they forget not the Name ever, and in the Lord's court they are Known as true.
Asa 3rd Guru.
The saints, whose word is true, are renowned through the Lord's Name.
From within the egoism is eliminated, they worship the name, and meet the true Lord.
By Lord God's Name, His slave obtains honour.
Accredited is their advent. Them every one adores. Pause.
Egotism, egoism, excessive wrath and haughtiness are the caste of men.
If man dies by Guru's word, then He is rid of this caste, and his light unites with the Supreme Light of the Illustrious Lord.
Meeting the Perfect True Guru, my birth has become profitable.
I have obtained the nine treasures of God Name and brimful and inexhaustible are my store.
They, who love the Lord's Name, really come as the dealers of Name's merchandise.
They who become Guru-wards obtain this wealth, for within their mind they ponder on the Name.
The proud apostates know not the worth of Lord's worship.
The Lord Himself has beguiled them; they lose their life game in gamble.
Without affections, meditation is not possible nor is the body at peace.
The wealth of love is obtained from the Guru and through Lord's service the soul becomes steady.
He alone performs Lord's service whom he blesses therewith and her reflects upon the Guru's hymns.
In his mind abides the one Name alone and he stills his ego and duality.
The One Name is the caste and honour of Lord's devotees. He Himself bedecks them.
They ever remain under His protection, and as it please Him so, does He arrange their affairs.
The Lord's adoration is distinct in this that it is known through Guru's instruction alone.
Nanak he in whose mind the Name dwells through Lord's Fear and devotion he is embellished with His Name.
Asa 3rd Guru.
The mortal wanders about in other relishes. But without the Name he suffers agony.
He meets not the Divine True Guru who imparts the True understanding.
O my insane soul quaff thou the God's elixir and enjoy its relish.
Attach to other pleasures thou wanderest about and wastest thy life in vain. Pause.
In this age, stainless are the Guru-wards who remain absorbed in the love of the True Name.
Without destiny (good luck) nothing can be obtained. What can we say or do?
He, who banished wickedness from his mind, and dies by Guru's word, understand his ownself.
They who hasten to Guru's refuge, them pardons the Pardoner.
Without the Name, peace is not attained nor does pain depart from within.
This world is engrossed in the love of wealth and is gone astray in duality and doubt.
The untrue brides known not the worth of their Spouse. What shall they do by decorating themselves.
Night and day they ever keep on burning and enjoy not the couch for their Spouse.
Stilling their self-conceit, from within, the true brides attain to their Lord's palace.
With Guru's hymns, they are adorned, and their Husband blends them with Himself.
In the darkness of mammon's attachment the man has forgotten death from his mind.
The self-ward repeatedly die and are re-born. Die they again, and become miserable at Death's door.
They, whom the Lord Himself unites, unite with Him by deliberating over Gurbani.
Nanak, in that true court, exonerated become the faces of those, who are absorbed in the Lord's Name.
Asa 5th Guru. Ashtpadis
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
When I propitiated the five virtues and antagonised the five sins (passions),
then the five (virtues) I enshrined within me, and the five (vices) I cast away.
In this way the village of my body was peopled, O my brother.
They vice departed, and the Guru established gnosis within me. Pause.
Round this habitation, the Guru has put a fence of the True Religion.
The Guru given Divine knowledge and meditation form its strong plank gate.
Sow the crop of Lord's Name, O my brother and friend.
Ever strike the bargain of the service of the Guru.
With peace, poise and happiness are filled all the ships.
The Guru banker and the Sikh dealer, abide in the one place.
Now, the infidel tax, fine and terminal tax are levied not,
as the True Guru has set God's seal.
Load thou the merchandise of the Name, and dispatch the cargo.
So shalt thou earn profit under Guru's instruction and return home.
The True Guru is the wholesale dealer and his Sikhs the retail vendors.
The stock-in-trade is the Lord's Name and the meditation of the True Lord, the account.
He, who serves the Perfect Guru, abides in this house of God.
O Nanak, immovable is the Lord's city.
Asawari 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Within my mind I have imbibed love with God.
In the society of saints I dwell on the Lord God, and pure and true has become my way of life.
For Lord's sight I have a great thirst and I think of Him in many a way.
Be merciful O my Transcendent Lord. Show mercy unto me. O God, the Enemy of pride.
Wandering in many existences, my stranger soul has come and joined the saints guild.
The commodity which I longed for, that I have found in the Love of Lord's Name.
As many as are the revelments and relishes of wealth, they all pass away in an instant.
Thine saints are imbued with Thy Name, and they enjoy peace at all the places.
The entire world is seen passing away, but ever stable is God's Name.
Make thou friendship with the saint, that thou mayest obtain an eternal abode.
Friends, intimates, sons and relations, none shall be a companion of thine.
Lord's Name alone is the mortals partisan, and Lord is the Master of the meek.
Lord's lotus feet are the ship and getting attached with them, I have crossed the world ocean.
Meeting the perfect True Guru, I have come to embrace true love with the Lord.
Thy saints prayer is, "O Lord, forget me not even for the duration of a breath, and a morsel".
Whatever pleases Thee O God, that is good. By Thine will the affairs are adjusted.
I have met my Beloved, the ocean of peace, and in me has accrued the Supreme bliss.
Says Nanak, by meeting Lord, the embodiment of immense joy, all my ailments have been cured.
Asa 5th Guru. Separation hymns on the tune of the Chhands (Metre).
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace. He is obtained to.
Contemplate on the Supreme Lord Master and be a sacrifice unto His sight, O my dear.
How can He be forsaken, O dear, by remembering whom sorrow are forgotten?
O dear, I would sell this body to the saint, if he causes me to meet my Beloved.
The pleasures and decoration of sin are futile and I have forsaken and abandoned them, O Mother.
Lust, wrath and avarice forsook me O dear when I fell at the feet of the True Guru.
The persons, who are imbued with the Lord, O dear, go not anywhere else.
They who have tasted God's essence, O dear, remain satiated and sated.
He, who seizes the skirt of the saint, O Nanak, crosses over the terrible world ocean.
The pain of birth and death is removed, O dear, when man meets God, the King.
The beauteous, accomplished and Omniscient Lord is my very life. Show me Thy vision, O Master.
The mortals who are separated from Thee, O my Beloved, are born only to die and eat the poison of sins.
He alone meets Thee, O my Love, whom Thou causeth to meet. I fall at his feet.
The happiness, man receives by seeing the sight of the Beloved cannot be told by mouth.
The true love of the Beloved snaps not. It lasts all the ages through.
Whatever pleases Thee, that is good, O Love, Eternal is Thy will.
Nanak, who are imbued with the love of the All-pervading-Lord, they remain instinctively inebriated, O dear.
Thou knowest all the condition of mine, O Love. To whom should I tell and narrate it?
Thou art the Giver of all the beings they eat and wear what Thou givest them.
Weal and woe are in They, will, O Beloved There is not another from where they emanate.
My Beloved, what Thou causeth me to do, that alone I do Anything else I cannot do.
Embellished are all the days and nights, O my Love, when God's Name is remembered.
The mortal does the deeds, which are pre-ordained on his forehead, O my dear.
The One Lord Himself is pervading every where, O my dear, in every Heart he is contained.
Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary, O Beloved God. Take him out of the world well.
Asa Measure 1st Guru. The writing of a tablet.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
S:- The Lord who created the world, is the sole Master of all.
Profitable becomes their advert into this world, whose mind remains attached to Lord's service.
O man, O my foolish mind, why doest thou forget Him?
When thou shalt adjust thy account, my brother, then alone thou shalt be deemed educated. Pause.
I:-- The Primal Lord is the Giver and He alone is true.
No account is left due from the Guru-ward, who understand the Lord through these letters.
U:-- Sing thou the praise of Him, whose limit cannot be found.
They, who perform service and practise truth, obtain the fruit.
N:-- If anyone understand Divine Knowledge he becomes a learned scholar.
If anyone knows the One Lord amongst all the beings, he talks not of ego, then.
K:-When the hair grow grey they shine without soap.
Death-King's hunters come and they blind with the chain of mammon.
Kh:-- The Creator is the King of the world, who gives sustenance man on enslaving him.
Under his command the entire world is bound and another's order pre avails not.
G:-He who renounce the singing of Lord's Gurbani, becomes arrogant in his speech.
The Lord, who has shaped the pots and make the world kiln, decides the time to put them therein.
Gh:-- The attendant who performs Guru's service remains attached to Guru's hymns.
He who deems bad and good as the same, He in this way gets absorbed in the Lord.
Ch:-- He, who made the four Vedas, four production-sources, and the four ages,
has Himself been, in all the ages the Renuciatior, the Reveller of the production sources and the learned scholar.
Chh:-- Spiritual ignorance is diffused amidst all, and the doubt is Thine doing, O Lord.
Having created doubt, Thou Thyself strayest the men and they, on whom is Thine grace, them the Guru's meets,
J:-- Thine beggarly man, who went a begging in the eighty four lakhs of existences begs for Thine gnosis O Lord.
The One Lord takes away, and the one Lord gives, I have heard not of another second.
Jh:-- Why die of anxiety, O mortal? What God has to give, that He continues to give.
He gives, beholds, and issues orders according as the beings are to obtain sustenance.
N:-- When I cast glance, I see not another. The One Lord pervades all the places,
and The same One Lord dwells in the mind.
T:-- Why practisest thou deceit O mortal? Thou shalt get up and depart in a moment and trice.
Lose not thy play of life in gamble. Do thou run and fall under God's protection.
Th:-- Comfort pervades the heart of those, whose mind is attached to God's Feet.
The men whose mind is so attached are saved, O Lord and by Thine grace they obtain happiness.
D:-- Why makest thou ostentations, O mortal? Whatever exists, all that shall pass away.
Serve Him, who is contained among all Only then shalt thou obtain peace.
Dh:-- The Lord Himself dismantles and builds and as it pleases Him, so does He do.
Creating the creation He beholds it He issues commands, and emancipates him, on whom He casts His merciful glance.
N:-- He, within whose mind pervades the Lord, sings God's praise.
He, whom the Creator unites with His ownself, is not born again.
T:-- Deep is the terrible ocean. The limit thereof cannot be found.
I have no boat, nor any raft. I am drowning, Save me, O my Saviour King.
Th:-- In spaces and inter--spaces He, the Lord, is and by His doing everything has come into being.
What is doubt? What is called mammon? Whatever pleases Him, that is good.
D:-- Impute not blame to any one. The fault is of thy own deeds.
Whatever I did, for that I have suffered, I blame no one else.
Dh:-- Whose power has installed and upheld the earth and who has imparted dye to everything,
whose gifts', everyone receives, His will works according to mortals deeds.
N:-- The Spouse ever enjoys pleasures but He is neither seen nor comprehended.
Undoubtedly I am called the wife, but my Groom has never met me, O my sister.
P:-- The Transcendent Lord our King, has made the world to behold.
He sees, understands and knows everything. Within and without He is pervading.
Ph:-- The whole world is entangled in a noose and bound with Death's chain.
Only those persons are saved who by Guru's grace run and enter God's sanctuary.
B:-- The Lord began to play the game by making the four ages His dice-cloth.
He made all the men and other beings His draughtmen, and Himself began to through the dice.
Bh:-- They who search God and feel His fear, by Guru's grace, obtain the fruit.
The self-willed fools wander about and remember not the Lord. They go round in the circuit of eighty-four lakhs of births.
M:- Because of worldly love, the mortal thinks of death and God, the lover of Nectar, only, when he is about die.
As long as there is breath in the body, he reads of other things and forgets the letter M, death and God.
Y:-- If man recognises the True Lord, he is never born again,
The Guru-ward utters, the Guru-ward understands, and the Guru-ward knows but one God.
R:-- The Lord is contained among all the beings, which He has made.
Having created the beings, He has put them all to work they, on whom is His grace, remember His Name.
L:-- He who put the creatures to various jobs has made love of wealth sweet them.
The Lord gives to eat and drink. Whatever befalls man under His will and command, he should endure it as alike.
W:-- The all pervading Lord is one Master, who created the venture of the world to behold it.
He (God), sees, tastes, and knows everything and is pervading within and without.
R:-- Why quarrellest thou, O mortal? Meditate thou on Him who is the imperishable Lord.
Meditate Him, be absorbed in the True one, and be a sacrifice unto him.
H:-- There is no other Giver than He, who on creating the creatures gives them sustenance.
Meditate on God's Name, be absorbed in God's Name, and night and day derive thou the profit of God's Name
A:-- What God, who Himself made the world, has to do, that He continues to do.
The Lord acts and causes other to act, He knows everything and Like this says Nanak, the poet Asa Measure 3rd Guru.
Asa Measure 3rd Guru. Alphabetical Hymn.
There is but one God. By true Guru's grace He is obtained.
Ayu Ange and kakhe Ghane, the whole world that is born, shall pass away.
Riri Lali, the mortal commits sins and falling in vices forgets virtues.
O my soul why hasty thou learnt such an account,
by which rendering of account still remains due from thee? Pause.
Sidhan Naiain. Thou O man, rememberest not God. N: --- Neither thou takest the Name.
Chh:-- Day and night thou art wearing off, O fool. seized by Death's myrmidon, how wilt thou be released?
B:- Thou understand not O stupid and led astray by doubt, thou art wasting away thy life
Without cause thou callest thyself a teacher, and takest on thee the load of others.
J:-- Thou hast been robbed of thy Divine light, O fool and when departing, in the end, thou shalt repent.
The one Lord thou rememberest not, so thou shalt enter the womb, again and again.
Red thou that what is written on thy forehead, O scholar and teach not wickedness to others.
To begin with the teacher is roped, and afterward the noose is put around the pupil neck.
S:-- Thou hast lost self discipline, O stupid and thou hast taken an improper charity.
As is the daughter of thy almsgiver, so is the thine. By taking this payment (for performing wedding ceremony } thou hast wasted thy life.
M:-- Thou hast been denuded of thy intellect, O fool, and art infested with the great malady of self-conceit.
Within thy mind, thou seest not the Lord and demeanest thyself for wealth.
K:-- In lust and wrath, thou wanderest, O fool. Attached to worldly love, thou hast forgotten God.
Thou readest reflectest and proclaimest much, but without knowing, thou art drowned to death.
T:-- In wrath thou art burnt, O ignorant man. Th:-- The place thou livest in, has become accursed.
Gh:-- Thou beggest from door to door, O fool. D:-- Thou receivest not the Name's gift.
P:-- Thou shalt not swim across, O fool, as thou art engrossed in the worldly affairs.
The True Lord has Himself beguiled thee, O fool. It was so ordained on thy brow.
Bh:-- O fool, thou art drowned in the terrible world ocean, and art engrossed in the worldly valuables.
He, who by Guru's grace knows the One Lord, crosses the world ocean in a moment.
W:-- Thy turn has come, O ignorant man. But thou hast forgotten the Luminous Lord.
This opportunity thou shalt not get again. Thou shalt fall in the power of Death's myrmidons, O fool.
Jh:-- Thou shalt never repent, O fool, if thou hearest the True Guru's instruction even a little.
Without the True Guru, there is not another Guru, and the one without the Guru has a bad name.
Dh:-- Restrain thy wandering mind O foolish man. within thee is the Name treasure.
If man becomes a Guru-ward, then does he drink God's elixir, and continues he, to quaff if, all the ages through.
G:-- Think thou of the World-Lord, O fool. By mere talk, none has ever attained Him.
Guru's feet abide thou in thy mind, O stupid person. All thine past sins, he shall forgive.
H:-- God's discourse understand thou, O fool, then alone shalt thou attain eternal peace.
The more the perverse read, more the anguish they suffer. Without the True Guru there is no salvation.
R:-- O fool, remember thou the Lord, through the persons in whose heart He is abiding.
By Guru's grace they, who recognise the Lord, they understand their Absolute God.
My Master, Thine limit cannot be known. The Indescribable God cannot be described.
Nanak, they whom the True Guru meets have their account settled.
Asa Measure 1st Guru. A chant
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O bride with girl's youth, my Beloved is very sportive.
When the bride entertains great affection for her Groom, the Merciful Lord is delighted, and begins to love her.
The wife meets her Spouse, if the Lord Master Himself shows her favour.
Her couch is adorned in the association of her Beloved, and her Lord Master Himself shows her favour.
Show me Kindness and compassion, O Merciful True Lord, that I may obtain Guru's instruction, and sing Thy praise.
Nanak seeing God, her Husband, the wife is delighted, and there is joy in her mind.
O bride with natural beauty, make an affectionate supplication, before thy Lord.
To my soul and body, God is pleasing and I am enamoured of Lord Master's association.
Imbued with Lord's love. I pray before God, and through God's Name I abide in peace.
If thou knowest His virtues, then shalt thou know the Lord and like this, merits shall abide in thee and demerits shall flee away.
Without Thee I cannot remain even for a trice. By merely saying and hearing of Thee I am not satisfied.
Nanak cries forth, "O Beloved, O my Beloved". His tongue and mind are drenched with Lord's Nectar.
O my companions and friends, my Beloved is a merchant.
God's Name I have purchased from Him. Its sweetness and value are infinite.
Invaluable is His worth and dwells He in the True Mansion. If the bride becomes pleasing to the darling Lord, then is she rendered illustrious.
Some enjoy dalliance with God, while I cry standing at His door.
The Doer of works and the Omnipotent Lord of wealth Himself adjusts the affairs.
Nanak, blessed is the bride on whom is the Lord's grace and in her heart she treasures up the Name.
In my home is the true song of rejoicing. The Lord, my friend, has visited me.
Imbued with love, Lord enjoys me, I have captivated his heart and given mine to Him.
I tendered my soul and got God as my Groom. As He pleases so does enjoy me.
I have placed me body and soul before the Beloved, and through the Name have become very fortunate. Within my home I have attained the ambrosial fruit.
Through intellect recitation and great cleverness the Lord is not obtained. What the soul desires is attained by love.
Nanak, the Lord is my friend I am not an ordained person.
Asa 1st Guru.
Divine music and the Divine music plays to the accompaniment of the air of the musical instruments.
My soul and my soul is imbued with the love of my Darling Beloved.
The detached soul, night and day remains absorbed in one God, and obtains an abode in the realm of profound trance.
The True Guru has shown me the limitless, Unseen and the darling Primal Lord.
My Lord's sitting place is permanent, and in His meditation my soul is absorbed.
Nanak, the desireless are tinged with the Name and hear the melodious celestial strain.
Say in what way can I reach that Unreachable, that Unreachable city of the Lord?
By practising truth, and self-restraint contemplating over Lord's praises and acting up to Guru's teaching.
By practising the True Name, man gets to his own home, and obtains the Treasure of merits.
He has no stem, roots leaves and branches and is the Supreme Lord over the heads of all.
Men have grown weary of practising worship, penances and self-discipline. They obtain Him not through these persistent rituals.
Nanak, through Divine Knowledge, Lord the Life of the world, is met. The True Guru imparts this understanding.
The Guru is the mine of jewels and an ocean, which abounds in pearls.
Take thou bath in the seven seas, O my soul and become pure.
When it pleases the Lord, man bathes in the pure water of Name, and through meditation obtains the five merits.
Renouncing lust, wrath, deceit and mortal sins he clasps the True Name to his heart.
When the currents of ego, avarice and greed die away, the man meets the Master, who is merciful to the meek.
Nanak, at par with the Guru, there is no place of pilgrimage. The True Guru is himself the world Cherisher Lord.
I have searched the jungles and forests, and have seen all the grass blades.
The three worlds, all the sentient beings, and the entire universe thou hast created, O Lord.
All the created by Thee, Thou alone art ever stable. None is equal to thee.
Thou art the Giver and all others are Thine beggars, and without Thee whom else should I praise?
My Donor, Thou givest unasked for gifts, and brimful are the treasure of Thine meditation.
Without the Lord's Name, man is not emancipated. So says, Nanak the meek.
Asa 1st Guru.
My soul, my soul is imbued with the love of my Beloved Lord Master.
True and infinite is the primal Lord Master, who is sustaining the earth.
The Unapproachable, Incomprehensible limitless and peerless Supreme Master is the Over-Lord of all.
The Primal Lord was in the beginning of ages, is now and shall also be. Deem all else as false.
One knows not the worth of virtuous deeds and piety; how can one obtain high understanding and salvation?
Nanak, the pious person knows only the Lord, and day and night meditates on His Name.
My soul, my soul has come to believe, that Lord's Name alone is Name's succour.
Egotism, worldly attachment and wealth go not with him, O Lord.
Mother, father brother, son, cleverness, property and wife keep not his company.
Through Lord's meditation, I have abandoned and forsaken wealth, the daughter of ocean, and have trampled it under my feet.
The primal Lord has shown a wondrous show, that whatever I behold, there I find him.
Nanak, forsake I not Lord's devotional service. In the natural course, come what may.
My mind, my mind has become immaculate by contemplating over the True Lord.
Vices I have effaced (dispelled), and I now walk with the company of the good.
Discarding vices I do good deeds, and am exonerated in the True court.
My coming and going are stopped and stayed. For I, through the Guru, have reflected on the Real Thing.
My Master, Thou art, my intimate friend and wise comrade. Grant me the glory of Thy True Name.
Nanak, I have received such an instruction from the Guru, that the Name jewel is revealed unto me.
Collyrium, the collyrium of truth, I have carefully applied to my eyes, and am imbued with the Immaculate Lord.
Within my mind and body is contained the Bestower Lord, the life of the world.
My soul is imbued with the beneficient God, the life of the world, and is easily united and blended with Him.
By Lord's grace, man obtains peace in the saints society and the association of the holy-men.
The world denouncers remain absorbed in God's worship and are rid of attachment and desire.
Nanak, rare is the desireless slave of God. Who by quelling his ego remains pleased with the Lord.
Asa Measure. 1st Guru. A Metre.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is attainted.
Thou art the Giver of all the places, where ever I go, O my True Creator
Thou art the Giver of all the Architect of destiny and the Distress Dispeller.
Destroyer of pain is the Lord, and, all that takes place is of His doing.
Millions upon millions of sins, He destroyer in a moment.
Thou assayest every heart, and declarest a swan, a swan and a crane a crane.
Thou art at all the places, wherever I go, O my True Creator.
They who remember God with single mind, attain peace, but rare are they in the world.
Death's courier not near them, they act up to Guru's instruction, and they never return routed.
They, who dwell upon Lord God's excellence suffer not defeat ever, Death myrmidon goes not near them.
Ended are the births and deaths of those, who are attached with God's feet,
By Guru's teaching, they obtain God's elixir and God's Fruit and Lord God's Name, they clasp to their heart.
They who think of the Lord with single mind, obtain joys, but a few are they in this world.
He who created the beings and has put them to task, Unto Him I am a sacrifice.
Perform His service, gather profit and thus thou obtain honour in God's Court.
The man, who recognises but One God, that man alone gathers honour in God's Court.
He, who under Guru's instruction, remember God and ever utters and repeats God's praise, obtain to the Nine treasure.
Day and night take thou the Name of the God, who is sublime and the Lord president of all.
I am a sacrifice unto Him, who having created the world, has put it to work.
They who repeat the Name look embellished and obtain the fruit of peace. They who believe in the Name win the life's game.
If it pleases Him, they run not short of Lord's boons, even through series of ages may pass.
Though several ages may pass away to their boons there, is no end, O Lord.
They age not, die not and fall not into hell, only if they meditate on God's Name.
They who utter God's Name, wither not and, O Nanak, nor do they suffer pain.
They who take the Name, look beauteous and reap the fruit of happiness. They who accept the Name, win the life game.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Asa 1st Guru. Rhythm.
Hear thou, O black, why art thou enamoured of the orchard (of passion)?
The fruit of sin is sweet for but four days. It then grows hot (unsavory).
Then the fruit, which thou greatly longest for, becomes bitter, nay rather very bitter, without the Name.
That fruit is transitory, like the sea-risen ripples and like lightning's flash.
Without God, there is no other protector and Him thou hast forgotten.
Nanak tells the truth, think of it, O man. Thou shalt die, O black deer.
O bumble bee, thou wanderest amongst the flowers. Exceedingly great calamity shall befall thee.
I have inquired of my Guru regarding the true comprehension.
O bumble-bee, mad after the creepers flowers, I have asked my True Guru, regarding the knowledge of the Lord.
When the sun rises (after the night of life is ever), the body falls and the soul is boiled in hot oil.
O demon, without God's Name thou shalt be bound and suffer strokes on the road of Death.
Verily says Nanak, contemplate over the Lord, O my soul, as thou shalt die, O honey-bee.
O my strange soul! why fallest thou into entanglements?
When the True Lord abides within thy mind, why shouldest thou be entrapped in Death's noose?
The fisherman casts his net, the fish leaves the water with tearful eyes.
To the world love of worldly (wealth) is sweet, but this delusion is set aside in the end.
Serve thy God, attach thy mind with God and dispel thine mental anxieties.
Nanak tells the truth, meditate thou on the Lord in thy mind, O my stranger soul.
The river courses which separate, do meet again perchance.
In every age, what is sweet is full of poison. Some rare renouncer understands this.
Some rare person who thinks of the True Guru, knows Divine Knowledge and realises God.
Without God's Name, the thoughtless fools stray in superstition and are ruined.
They whose mind contains not God's True Name and devotion, bewail loudly in the end.
Nanak utters a truth, through the true Gurbani, the since long separated souls unite with the Lord.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Asa 3rd Guru. A Metre.
Within my home are sung the true songs of rejoicing, and with the Guru's True word my home is adorned.
The bride has met her Groom and the Lord Master has Himself accomplished the union.
The bride is intoxicated with Divine Knowledge, as the True Name she has enshrined in her mind, and the Lord has united her with Himself.
Embellished with Gurbani, beautiful with truth and tinctured in love, she ever enjoys her Beloved.
Stilling her ego, she attains God, her Spouse and then God's elixir is embedded in her mind.
Says Nanak, fruitful is the entire life of her, who is bedecked with Guru's hymns.
The damsel, who is gone astray in duality and double, attains not God her Groom.
The wife has no merit, so she vainly losses her life, O Lord.
The self-willed ignorant and impious woman wastes her life in vain and ultimately repents.
When she serves her True Guru, she receives eternal peace and then her Beloved meets her face to face.
Beholding her Spouse she blooms forth, her heart is delighted and she is beautiful with the True Name.
Nanak, without the Name, the bride strays in suspicious and meeting her Spouse, she obtains peace.
The wife, whom the Guru unites with the society of saints, knows her Groom to be with her, O Lord.
Her heart is united with the Guru's hymns and her fire of desire is easily extinguished.
With God's Name, the fire was extinguished peace reigned within her and she easily tasted God's elixir.
Meeting her Beloved, she ever enjoys His love and thoroughly preaches the Guru's true hymns.
By continual reading the scholars and silent sages are tired, and through religious garbs emancipation is not attained.
Nanak, without love-worship the world is gone mad, through the True Gurbani the man meets the Lord.
Bliss reigns in the mind of the bride, whom reverend God, the Beloved meets.
Through the Infinite words of the Guru, the bride is enraptured with God's ambrosia.
By means of the peerless? Gurbani, she meets her Beloved and she ever ponders on and enshrines His virtues in her mind.
Her couch got bedecked when she enjoyed her Spouse and by meeting with her Love, her demerits fled away.
Throughout the four ages, the wedding songs (songs of joy) are sung in the house, wherein God's Name is ever meditated upon.
Nanak, tinctured with the Name, the mortal ever abides in happiness. By meeting God, the affairs get adjusted.
There is but one God. By true Guru's grace. He is met.
Asa 3rd Guru. Rhythm.
O my friend and intimate, devote thyself to the meditation of Lord, the Spouse.
Ever serve thou thy Guru and obtain the wealth of the Name.
Perform thou the service of the Master, which service is pleasing to he dear Groom.
If thou walk according to thy own will, then, the Spouse, shall not be pleased with thee.
This way of love worship is difficult, through the Guru some rare one finds it.
Says Nanak, he, to whom God shows mercy, attaches his mind to His meditation.
O my detached soul, whom showest thou thy indifference towards the world?
They, who sing God's praise, are ever and ever, in Divine bliss.
Detach thyself from the world and shed thy hypocrisy. He, the Lord knows everything.
The One Lord is pervading the ocean, desert, earth and the sky,
The one resigned to Guru's will recognises Lord's will. He alone, who recognises the order of God, receives all the comforts.
Thus says Nanak, such a solitarian, night and day, remains absorbed in God's love.
Wherever, thou wanderest, O my mind, there the Lord is with thee.
Shed thou thy cleverness, O my mind, and deliberate over the Guru's hymns.
He, the Bridegroom is ever with thee, even if thou rememberest God's Name for a moment.
Thy sins of many births shall be washed off, and in the end, thou shalt attain the supreme status.
Thou shalt patch up with the True Lord, by ever remembering Him through the Guru.
Thus, says Nanak, whatever thou goes, O my mind, thither God is ever with thee.
Meeting the True Guru, the wandering mind is held, and it comes and abides in its own home.
It then purchases the Name, utters the Name and in the Name it remains absorbed.
The outgoing soul becomes steady by meeting the True Guru and enters into the Tenth gate.
There, ambrosia is man's food and resounds there the celestial strain, with which music the world is sustained.
Many musical instruments and unstruck music ever resounds there and the mortal remains absorbed in the True Lord.
Thus says Nanak, by meeting the True Guru, the wandering mind becomes steady and comes and dwells within its own home.
My soul, thou art the embodiment (image) of Divine light, so know thy source.
O my soul, the reverend Lord is with thee. By Guru's teaching enjoy His love.
If thou recognise thy origin, then shalt thou know thy Spouse and understand the secret of death and birth.
If by Guru's grace the One Lord, then thou shalt lose the love of another.
If in thy mind comes peace and gladness resounds, then alone thou shalt be approved.
Thus say Nanak, O my soul, thou art the image of the Luminous Lord. Realise thou the true origin of thy being.
O man, thou art full of with pride and laden with pride and thou shalt depart.
Fascinating mammon has fascinated thee and again and thou shalt be goaded into existences.
clinging to pride thou goest, O foolish man, and while departing, thou shalt repent in the end.
With the ailment of ego and again thou art afflicted and art vainly devastating (wasting) thy life.
The self-willed fool remembers not the Lord and repent while going yonder (in the next world).
Thus says Nanak, O man! thou art filled with pride, and laden with pride thou shalt depart.
O man, take not pride that thou knowest some thing but be thou pious and humble.
Within thee are ignorance and pride of intellect. By the true word wash off this filth.
Be humble before the True Guru and show not thy ownself.
By its own pride the world is burning. Allow not thyself to be ruined like wise.
Attend to thy business according to the will of the true Guru and remain attached to the will of the true Guru.
Thus say Nanak, forsake thou thy self conceit and continue to be meek, O man. Thus shalt thou obtain happiness.
Blest is the time when I met the true Guru and remembered God, the spouse.
I naturally got exceedingly delighted and obtain the peace of mind and body.
I remembered the Bridegroom, enshrined Him within my mind and forsook all the evils.
When it pleased Him, virtues became manifest in me and the Guru himself bedecked me.
The persons, who cling to One Name and renounce another's love, become acceptable.
Thus says Nanak, blessed is the time when I met the True Guru and remembered that groom of mine.
Some people are gone astray in doubt but them the Spouse Himself has strayed.
They wander about in another's love and go about their business in pride.
Them, the Lord has Himself misled and put them on the evil track. Nothing lies in their power.
Their ascent and decent, thou alone knowest, thou, who hast created the creation.
Exceedingly strict is thine command to act upon but through the Guru, hardly one realises it.
Thus says Nanak, what can be poor creatures do, when thou misleadest them into doubt?
My true Lord, true is Thine greatness.
Thou art the Transcendent Lord and the Infinite Master. Thy might cannot be described.
True is thy grandeur, and he within whose mind, thou enshrines it, ever sings Thine praises.
When the mortal becomes pleasing to Thee, he sings Thy glory and fixes his attention on Thee, O True Lord.
Whom thou unitest with thyself he by Guru's grace, remains absorbed in thee.
Thus says Nanak O my true Lord, true is Thine glory.
Asa Measure 4th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Life, the real life, I have obtained through love of the Exalted Guru.
God's Name, God's Name, the Guru has given me, and has enshrined it in my mind.
The Lord God's Name, he has placed within my mind, and all my doubts and troubles have departed.
By Guru's word, I have meditated on the Invisible and Inapprehensible Lord and have obtained the pure supreme status.
On singing the hymns of the True Guru, the musical instruments ever play and the unstruck music resounds.
Nanak the Giver Lord has given me a gift and my light has blended with His supreme Light.
The perverse die in their perversity, proclaiming wealth as their own.
They attach their mind to the nasty-smelling mound, which comes for a moment and in a moment departs.
They attach and fix their mind on the heap of bad odour, which is seen fleeting like the colour of saf-flower.
In an instant they go to the east, and in a instant to the west. They continue revolving like the potter's wheel.
In pain they eat, in pain they amass and enjoy. They increase their store of sorrow.
Nanak, when man enters the Guru's Sanctuary, he easily crosses the arduous ocean.
The Lord, my Lord is sublime unapproachable and unfathomable.
God's capital, God's capital I desire from my True Guru, the banker.
I long for God's wealth to buy the Name. I sing God's praises and God's praise do I love.
Sleep and hunger I have all cast and shaken off and through profound concentration. I am absorbed in the Absolute Lord.
The dealers of one king come and take away God's Name as their profit.
Nanak, dedicate thy soul and body to the Guru. He who is destined to attain, attains God's Name.
The great ocean is full of the wealth of jewels, upon jewels.
They who are attached with Divine word, the Gurbani, obtain it.
They (this wealth) who are attached with the Guru's hymns, obtain the invaluable, unrivalled jewel.
They who obtain Thy immeasurable Name, O Lord God, have their treasure brimful with Thy devotional service.
I have churned the body ocean and I have seen an enamourning thing come to view.
The Guru is God and God is the Guru, O Nanak. There is no difference between the two, my brother.
Asa 4th Guru.
Slowly, steadily and slowly and steadily trickles (pours down) the Nectar fall.
Through the Guru the Guru-ward beholds the Beloved Omnipresent Lord Master.
God's Name, the World emancipator is dear unto him in the God's Name alone is the glory.
In the Dark age, Lord's Name is the ship and through the Guru the man swims across.
This world and the world beyond get adorned with Lord's Name. The Guru's ward's way of life is sublime.
Nanak, showering His benediction, God gives the gift of His emancipating Name.
The Lord Master's Name, I have repeated and it has destroyed and dispelled my sorrow and sin, O Lord.
By Guru's association, Guru's association, I have remembered the Lord Master, and have enshrined Him in my mind.
When I sought the Guru's protection, Lord's Name got established in my mind and I obtained the supreme rank.
When the True Guru Implanted God's Name within me, my sinking boat, laden with avarice, and sin, safely emerged out.
The perfect Guru has given me the gift of spiritual life and I have fixed my attention on Lord's Name.
O Nanak, the merciful Master Himself mercifully gives the Name to him, who seeks the Guru's protection.
Hearing the world of Lord's Name all my affairs got adjusted and embellished, O Lord.
With every hair, every hair of mine I meditate on the Lord, through the Guru.
I have become pure by remembering the Name of the Lord, who has no form and outline.
Lord's Name is contained in my heart, and my desire and hunger have all disappeared.
By Guru's instruction the Lord is revealed unto me, and my mind and body are all adorned with peace.
The Lord Himself has shown mercy unto Nanak and He has make me the slave of the slaves of His slaves.
Self-willed, foolish and unfortunate are they who have forgotten the name of the Lord Master.
Their heart is engrossed in worldly love, and every moment, mammon remains attached to them.
The filth of worldly-valuables clings to them who love not Lord's Name, they become unfortunate fools.
The men of ego perform many rituals, but they hesitate to remember Lord God's Name.
Extremely arduous and painful is the Death's path, stained with the darkness of worldly love.
Nanak, if through the Guru, the mortal meditates on the Name, then, he finds the gate of salvation.
The Lord's Master's Name and great Pervading God are known, through the Guru.
In a moment this mind is in heaven, and in a moment in nether region. The Guru brings back the wandering mind into one home (on one point).
When the mind returns to the one home, the man wholly realises the worth of salvation and enjoys the relish of Lord God's Name.
Lord's Name preserves the honour of His serf, as He emancipated and saved Prahlad.
Continually repeat thou the lofty Lord's Name, by narrating whose praises his limit cannot be found.
Hearing Lord's Name, Nanak is drenched in happiness and has merged in the Lord's Name.
They within whose mind Lord's Name abides, forsake all the anxieties.
They obtain all the wealth and all piety and obtain the fruit which their mind desires.
Meditating on Lord's Name and singing the praise of Lord's Name man gathers his heat-desired boon.
His evil inclination and mal-intellect depart, he obtains right understanding and attaches his mind to the Lord's Name.
Profitable becomes the life and the whole body, wherein the Lord's Name is illumined.
Nanak, by ever remembering God, day and night, the pious person abides in his own home.
They who have faith in the Lord's Name, attach not their mind to another.
Even if the whole earth be transformed into gold and be delivered to them, without the Name they love nothing else.
The Lord's Name is pleasing to their mind and through it they attain supreme bliss and when departing in the end, it goes with them as their succourer.
I have amassed the capital of the Lord's Name's wealth. It neither sinks nor parts company.
The Lord's Name in this age is the only support. Death's courier draws not near it.
Nanak, through the Guru, the Lord is recognised, and He mercifully unites man with Himself.
True, true is the Lord Master Name. it is realised, through the Guru.
Lord's slave is he, who embraces Guru's service, dedicates his heart and body and makes an offering of them to him.
The serf, who tenders his mind and body entertains immense faith, him the Guru unites in his love.
The Master of the meek and the Donor of the beings is obtained through the Perfect Guru.
Guru's Sikh and Sikh's Guru, are one and the same and both propagate Guru's mission.
The spell of the Lord's Name, the Guru enshrines in the Sikh's mind, O Nanak and he easily meets the Lord.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
Asa 4th Guru.
Lord's God the Creator is the Destroyer of distress and His Name is the Purifier of sinners.
He, who loves God's service, obtains the supreme rank. The Lord Master's service is superior to every other dead.
From every point of view the meditation of God's Name is an excellent avocation and by this meditation, man becomes eternal.
He effaces the pain of both birth and death and naturally sleeps in peace.
O Lord God, the Master, show mercy unto me. Within my mind I ponder on Thee, O Lord God.
Lord God, the Creator is the Destroyer of distress and this Name is the Purifier of the sinners.
Sublime is the wealth of God's Name in the Dark age. Meditate thou on God in the True Guru's way.
Through the Guru, read thou of God and through the Guru, hear thou of God. By remembering and hearing the Name of God, pain departs.
Contemplating on Lord God's Name, agony is removed. Through the Name of God supreme bliss is attained.
The Sat-Guru-given-gnosis is lit up in the heart, with whose light is dispelled the darkness of spiritual ignorance.
They alone meditate on Lord God's Name on whose forehead it is so written by the Primal Lord.
In the Dark age sublime is the wealth of God's Name. Meditate thou on God in the way of the True Guru.
He, whose mind loves the Lord God, attains supreme peace and reaps the profit of God of the state of salvation.
He embraces love for God and God's Name becomes his helper and his wanderings, comings and going come to an end.
Flee his coming, goings, doubts and dreads and he sings Lord God Master's praise.
His sins and ills of many births are washed off and merges he into the Lord Master's Name.
Who have such a pre-ordained destiny, meditate they on God and fruitful and approved becomes their advent.
He, whose soul loves the Lord Master, obtains the supreme bliss and reaps the profit of God in the form of the state of salvation.
Foremost (Eminent) are the persons unto whom God seems sweet, Sublime are these men of Lord God.
God's Name is their honour, and God's name is their succourer and under the Guru's instruction they enjoy God's Nectar.
God's elixir enjoy and remain thoroughly detached. Though the greatest good luck they obtain the Lord's ambrosia.
Greatly blessed and truly perfect persons are they, who through Guru's instruction meditate on the Name.
Serf Nanak, prays for the dust of saints feet, Wherewith his soul is rid of sorrow and separation.
Foremost are the persons unto whom God seems sweet. Sublime are these men of Lord God.
Asa 4th Guru.
In the Gold-age all men, were contented and meditative and the religion had four feet,
With their mind and body they sang of God and acquired the greatest peace. In every heart was the knowledge of God's excellences.
The knowledge of Lord's merits was their wealth, God's Name their success and to be virtuous their glory.
Within and without they saw the one Lord God. For them there was no other second.
With God's Name they fixed their attention, God's Name was their helper and in God's court they acquired honour.
In the Satiyug (Truth age), every one was contented and meditate and religion had four feet.
Then came Tretayuga (Silver-age) and power began to rule men's mind and they practised deeds of celibacy and self-discipline.
The fourth foot of religion dropped off, the three feet remained and men's minks and hearts were inflamed with wrath.
In men's minds and heart was the greatly, poisonous matter wrath, the kings made onslaughts in wars and gathered pain.
The mortal's mind was attached with the ailment of egoism and their self-conceit and arrogance increased.
If Lord God, my Master, shows mercy, the poison departs by Guru's instruction and God's Name.
Then came the Silver-age and power began to rule men's minds. They practised deeds of chastity and self-restraint.
The Doaparyuga (Brass-age) came, and men wandered in doubt, God created the milk-maids and Krishan.
The penitents practised penances, men initiated sacred feasts and charities and preformed many religious rites and rituals.
They performed religious rites and rituals. The two legs of religion dropped off and two legs remained.
Many heroes waged great wars and in pride they got ruined and ruined Others.
The Lord, compassionate to the poor, caused the mortals to meet the saint Guru. By meeting the True Guru filth is washed away.
The Doaparyuga (Brass age) came and people began to wander in doubt. The Lord created the milk-maids and Krishan.
God made the Kalyuga (the iron age) wherein the religion lost three legs and the fourth leg remained intact.
Acting according to the Guru's instruction, men gain medicine of God's Name, and by singing God's praise they attain Divine peace.
The season of God's praise glorification of God's Name and growing the Lord God's Name in the body filed, has arrived.
In the Dark age, if man sows any others seed then the Name, he loses all his profit and capital.
Serf Nanak has found the Perfect Guru, who has shown him the Name in his heart and soul.
God created the dark-age the religion lost three legs and the fourth leg remained intact.
Asa 4th Guru.
She to whose mind, is pleasing the Lord's praise, and to whose soul and body God seems sweet, attains the highest status.
She obtains Lord's God's elixir. Through Guru instruction meditates she on God and the eternal writ of destiny in her brow is fulfilled.
By virtue of the primal writ of good luck on her forehead, she repeats the Name of God, her spouse and through God's Name, she sings her Lord's praise.
On her forehead sparkles the gem of great love and she is bedecked with the Name of the Lord Master.
Her light blends with the Supreme light and she obtain her Lord. By meeting the true Guru, her soul is satiated.
She, to whose mind is pleasing the Lord's praise and to whose soul and body God seems sweet. attain the supreme rank.
They, who sing Lord Master's praise, gain the supreme rank. They are the sublime and foremost amongst men.
Their feet, I worship and their feet I wash, every moment unto whom God seems sweet.
She, to whom God seems sweet, gathers supreme solace, and beautiful is her fortunate face.
By Guru's instruction she sings God's praise, wears God as garland around her neck and keeps God's Name on her tongue or in the throat.
Sees she every one with the eye, i.e. alike, and recognises she the pervading soul amongst all.
They who sing Lord God's praise, obtain the supreme status and they are the exquisite and the most eminent persons.
He, to whose mind the society of saints is pleasing, relishes God's elixir. In the society of saints abides the Lord. essence.
He meditates on Lord God and through Guru's word remains in bloom. Sans God he knows not another Second.
Save the Lord elixir, there is no other elixir. He alone knows its way, who quaffs it.
Hail, hail unto the prefect Guru, through whom the Lord is procured joining type society of saints Lord's Name is recognised.
The Name I serve, the name I meditate upon and without the Name there is not another.
He, to whose mind the society of saints is dear, relishes the God's elixir. In the saints guild abides the Lord's Nectar.
My Lord God shower Thine benediction on me, the stone; ferry me Thou across, and peacefully pull me out of the ocean.
I am struck in the mire of worldly love and am sinking. O Lord God, let me take hold of Thy Arm.
The Lord held me by the arm, I gained sublime understanding and I his slave, clung to Guru's feet.
He, who has good destiny written on his face and forehead ponders and reflects on the Lord master.
God has shown mercy unto slave Nanak, and God's Name seems sweet to his mind.
My Lord God, shower Thy benediction on me, the stone ferry me Thou across and peacefully pull me out of the world ocean.
Asa 4th Guru.
He, who from heart repeats the Name, to his mind God's Name is pleasing in the mind of the pious persons is great yearning for God.
The persons, who remain dead in life, they drink Nectar, and their mind, under Guru's instruction imbibes love for the Lord.
In their mind is the Lord God's love and to them, Guru is merciful They are emancipate whilst alive and to them, Guru is merciful. They are emancipate whilst alive and so are in peace.
Through God's Name, their birth and dead become illustrious, and in their mind and heart is He, the Lord Master.
In their mind abides God's Name, by Guru's instruction they relish God and the Lord God's Nectar they drink in big draughts.
He, who heartily repeats the Name, to his mind, God's Name is pleasing. In the mind of the pious persons is great yearning for God.
The man in the world likes not death and ever conceals himself from it, lest the Death's courier should catch and take him away.
Within and without the Unique Lord God, the Master, is present, and this soul cannot be kept concealed from Him.
How can one hold one's soul, when God wishes to have it? He to whom the thing belongs shall take is away.
The Self-willed wander about in pathetic lamentation and try all meditation and cures.
The Lord Master, to whom the thing belongs, shall take it away. The Lord's slave is redeemed by practising the World.
The Man in the world likes not death and ever conceals himself from it, lest the Death's courier should seize and take him away.
Death's time is pre-writ the Guru-wards look beauteous through Lord God's meditation and His slaves are saved.
By God's Name they attain honour and Divine glory, and go the God's court clothed in rove of honour.
Roved at God's court and perfected, with the Name, they obtain peace through God's Name.
Their pain of both birth and death is annulled and they merge into the Lord God's Name.
Meeting together God's slave and God becomes one. The Lord and Lord's slaves are one and the Same.
Death's time is preordained. The pious persons look beauteous. Through the meditation of Lord God, his slaves are saved.
The mortal (world) is born to die and is ever destroyed but by attaching to the Supreme Guru, man becomes immortal.
The Guru implants the Name spell in man's mind and in his mouth trickles the Lord Master elixir Thus enjoys God's Nectar.
Receiving the God's immortalising nectar the dead one is restored to life and then dies not again.
By Lord master's name man obtains the immortal status and into God's name merges he.
The name alone is the prop and support of serf Nanak. Without the Name he has no other resting place.
The world is born to die and is ever destroyed but attaching to the supreme Guru it becomes ever-stable (immortal)
Asa 4th Guru. Chhant.
My great Lord is unapproachable incomprehensible primal immaculate and formless.
His condition cannot be described immeasurable is his glory My world - Lord is invisible and infinite.
The universe preserver is incomprehensible infinite and illimitable He himself know His ownself
What should these poor creatures utter which may amount to narrating and describing thee O Lord.
He on whom thou castest. Thy glance of grace reflects on thee under Guru instruction.
My great Lord is unreachable unapprehensible eternal pure and formless
O primal Lord thou art the remotest of the remote creator. Thy limit cannot be ascertained.
Thou art uninterruptedly present in all the hearts and in everything thou are contained amongst all.
Within the mind is the transcendent Lord the Supreme master whose end cannot be found.
He has no form or outline He is unseeable and unknowable The invisible Lord is beheld by Guru's instruction
He who perceives the Lord ever remains happy day and night and is easily absorbed in his Name.
O primal Lord thou art the illimitable creator thy limit cannot be found.
Thou art the true supreme master ever imperishable the Lord God is the treasure of excellences (virtues)
Lord God the master is but one there is not any other thou thyself art the omniscient Lord
Thou art the all knowing and the most exalted Lord None is so great as thee.
Thine is the command thou pervadest all the thing. What thyself does that comes to pass.
He the one Lord is contained amongst all and through the Guru God is Name is comprehended
Thou art the true supreme master and art ever imperishable. The Lord God is the treasure of excellences
Thou art the Creator off all greatness is thin and as it pleseth Thee so drivest thou the mortal.
As thou Thyself likest, so drivest thou the mortals.
All are merged in (subject to) thy command subject to thy order are all and when thou so willest man gets greatness through the Name.
Through the Guru one obtains wisdom effaces his self conceit and remains absorbed in the Lord.
Nanak through the Guru thy incomprehensible Name is obtained and the man remains absorbed in O Lord.
Thou are the Creator of all. All greatness is thine. As it pleasth thee so drivest thou the mortals.
There is but one God. By true Guru is grace. He is obtained.
Asa 4th Guru. Chhant.
Mine eyes are wet with God s elixir and my soul is imbued with his love, O Lord.
My master applied his touch-stone to my soul and found it hundred percent gold.
Through the Guru I am dyed deep red and my mind and body are wet with Lord is love.
Slave Nanak is soaked in Lord's perfume and blessed is his entire life.
The hymn of God's love is the pointed arrow which has smitten my heart O Lord.
He alone who feels the pain of love know how to endure it.
He how effaces his ownself and is dead in life is said to have been emancipated while alive.
O God unit serf Nanak with the true Guru that be may cross the arduous world-ocean.
I ignorant and stupid have entered Guru is asylum may I be blessed with Lord's love
Through the perfect Guru I have obtained God and I pray for the devotional service of God alone.
By Guru's hymns my soul and body have bloomed and I meditate on the Lord of endless (infinite) waves.
On meeting the holy men Nanak obtained God in the society of saints.
O God compassionate to the poor heart my supplication O God, thou art my Lord and my King.
I pray for the refuge of God s Name O my Lord God! put it into my mouth.
To love His devotees is the inherent disposition of God save my honour O Lord.
Servant Nanak has entered thine sanctuary O God and thy Name has saved him.
Asa 4th Guru.
Searching and seeking through the Guru I have found out God the friend.
Within the walled castle of my golden body the Lord God is revealed.
The Lord master is a jewel and ruby wherewith my soul and body are pierced.
Predestined as very fortunate I have obtained God. Nanak is kneaded with His Nectar.
I, a girl like youthful bride of my Lord the king stand ever and inquire the road to him.
The Guru has caused me to remember the Name of Lord God and I now tread the way to God.
Within my mind and body is the support of the Name and I have burnt down the poison of pride
O my God unite serf Nanak with true Guru who himself is united with the flower-bedecked Lord.
Through the Guru come and meet me O my beloved since long I have been separated from thee.
My mind and body are gone very sad My eyes are moist with God's ambrosia.
My Guru show me the Lord God my love meeting Him my mind is pleased.
Me a fool Guru Nanak has appointed to perform the service, the service of God.
The Guru's body is drenched with the nectar of God the King and he has sprinkled the Lord's nectar on me.
They to whose soul the Guru's hymns are pleasing continually quaff the nectar.
The Guru being pleased I have obtained God and shall no more be pushed and buffeted.
Lord s slave becomes the Lord God O Nanak the Lord and his slave are one.
Asa 4th Guru.
With the great True Guru is the treasure of God's ambrosial devotional service.
The great True Guru is the True banker who gives his disciple the Lord s capital.
Blessed, blessed is the trader and the trade, and all honour is into Guru, the merchant.
O slave Nanak, they alone obtained Guru who have such a pre-ordained writ on there forehead.
Thou, O my Master, art the True Banker, and the whole world is a dealer of Thine.
All the vessels Thou hast fashioned and the thing within, is also Thine, O God.
The thing which Thou puts into the vessel, that alone comes out. What can any.
Unto servant Nanak, God has donated the treasure of His love-adoration.
What merits of Thine can I narrate O Lord? Thou art the remotest of the remote Master, the king.
God's Name, I praise day and night, and this alone is my hope and support.
I am a fool and know nothing. How can I find Thy limit?
Attendant Nanak is God's servant, nay, the water-carrier of God's slaves.
As it pleases Thee, so do Thou save me and I have sought Thine refuge, O Lord Master, the king.
I am straying and spoiling myself day and night. O God, save Thou my honour.
I am child and Thou, O Guru, art my father. Do Thou instruct me and put me on the right track.
Servant Nanak is said to be the slave of God. So keep Thou his honour, O God.
Asa 4th Guru.
They alone. who have such a writ of God on their forehead, since the very beginning, them the True Guru meets.
The Guru removes their darkness of ignorance, and Divine Knowledge illumined in their heart.
They find the wealth of the jewel of God's Name and then wander not, again.
Serf Nanak has meditated on the Name and through meditation he has met the Lord.
They, who did not contemplate on such a Name of God, why did they come in this world?
Very difficult to obtain is this human birth and without the Name, it all goes in vain.
Now, in the opportune season, man sows not God's Name. What will the hungry eat, hereafter?
The way-ward are born again. Such is the will of God, O Nanak.
Thou, O God, belongest to all and all belong to Thee. My Master, the King, Thou hast created all.
Nothing, nothing is in the hands of any one. All walk as Thou drivest them.
My Beloved God, they alone unite with Thee, whom Thou unitest and who are pleasing to Thy mind.
Servant Nanak has met the True Guru, who, through God's Name, has floated him.
Some sing Lord God through music, musical instruments and religions books in various ways, but, by these methods, Master, the King is not pleased.
In whom are fraud and sin what good can bewailing do unto them?
God, the Creator, knows everything, though man tries to hide his sin or source of disease.
The pious persons, whose mind is pure, O Nanak, obtain Lord God's love-worship.
Asa 4th Guru.
Discreet and wise are the persons, within whose mind is the Lord God's love.
Even if they outwardly err in speech, still they are very dear to God.
God's saints have no other place. God is the honour of the dishonoured.
The Name is the mainstay of slave Nanak, and through God's power he is powerful.
Wherever my True Guru goes and sits, beautiful is that place, O Lord, the King.
The Guru's disciples search out that site and take and apply the dust there of to there face.
The service of the Guru's Sikhs, who ponder on the Name is approved.
They, who worship the True Guru, them the Lord causes to be worshipped.
The Guru's Sikh, in his mind, has love for God and God's Name. He Loves Thee, O Lord God, the King.
With the hands, he serves the Perfectly, True Guru and his hunger of self-hood is eliminated.
Goes all the appetite of the Sikhs of the Guru. Rather, other feed themselves in their wake.
Serf Nanak has sown the virtue of God's Name and again, the virtue of the God's Name exhausts not.
Rejoicing are in the mind of the Guru-Sikhs, who have seen my True Guru, O Lord, the King.
If some one recites to them the discourse of God's Name, he seems sweet to the mind of the Guru's disciples.
The Sikhs of the Guru, with whom my True Guru is mightily pleased are robed in God's court.
Nanak, the Lord's servant, within whose mind God's Name abides, has become the Lord God Himself.
Asa 4th Guru.
They who meet my perfect, True Guru, within them, he establishes the Name of God, O Lord, the King.
They, who meditate on God's Name have all their desires and hungers removed.
They, who contemplate over the Name of the Lord Master, near them comes not the death's courier.
O God, show mercy unto slave Nanak, who ever remembers God's Name and who with God's Name is saved.
They, who, through the Guru, remember the Name, no more meet obstacle, in the way.
They, who propitiate their potent True Guru, them worships the whole world.
They, who serve their beloved True Guru, ever obtain peace.
Those who meet Nanak, the True Guru, them, He, the Lord meets.
The Guru-wards, within whose mind is the Lord's love, their saviour is God Master, the Monarch.
How can any one slander them, unto whom God's Name is dear?
They, whose soul is reconciled (intimate) with God, all the miscreants, traduce them in vain.
Serf Nanak has contemplated upon the Name of God, who is the Saviour of all.
In every age God created His saints and preserved their honour.
Wicked Harnakhsh, the Lord killed and saved Prehlad.
On the egotists and slanderers, the Lord turned His back and to Namdev, He showed His face (affection).
Servant Nanak has so served His God, that He will deliver him in the end.
Asa 4th Guru. Chhant
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace he is obtained.
O my darling stranger soul, come thou into thine own home.
My Guru, cause me to meet my dear God, that He, the Lord, may abide within my home.
If God shows mercy, O my dear, thou shalt make merry in His love.
When Guru Nanak is pleased, my dear, he unites man with God.
I have not heartily tasted the love of my Lord, the Beloved.
The thirst of my heart has not been quenched, O Beloved, and I ever cherish hope to see Thee.
Each day youth is passing away, my Beloved, and death is stealing away my breath.
Fortunate and chaste is the wife, O Nanak, who claps God, her Beloved to her heart.
Mine eyes are imbued with the love of my Beloved, like those of the pied-cuckoo for rain drop, o dear.
My soul is cooled by drinking the rain drops of God, O dear.
Separation from my Love keeps my body awake, O dear, and by no means I can go to sleep.
By loving the Guru, Nanak has found God, the friend, O dear
In the month of Chetar, my dear, begins the pleasant season of spring.
But without my spouse, O dear, the dust is flying in the court-yard of my mind.
There is hope still in my sad heart and mine eyes, both are fixed on Him, my Beloved.
But now, on seeing the Guru, Nanak is over-joyed as a child, on beholding its mother, O dear.
My dear True Guru has recited to me the discourses and tales of God.
I am a sacrifice unto my beloved Guru, who has united me with God.
God has fulfilled all my hopes, O dear, and I have obtained the fruit, my mind desired.
When the Lord is pleased, O my dear, slave Nanak is absorbed in His Name.
Without my Beloved God, I shall not have love play.
How shall I find the Guru, by clinging to whom I can see my Beloved?
O Bounteous God, cause me to meet the Supreme Guru, as through the Guru alone, I can unite with Thee.
Nanak has obtained the Guru, O dear, because such was the primal writ on his forehead.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Asa Measure. 5th Guru. Chhant.
Joy! great joy! He, the Lord Master, I have seen.
Tasted, tasted have I the sweet elixir of the Lord God.
God's sweet elixir has rained in my mind, and through True Guru's pleasure, I have attained composure.
My home has been peopled and I sing The songs of rejoicing, as those five villains (passions) have fled.
I am pacified and sated with the ambrosial Gurbani, and the friendly Saint- Guru is my intercessor.
Says Nanak, my soul is domesticated (at one) with God. He, the Lord, I have seen with mine eyes.
Adorned! adorned are my beauteous gates, O my Omnipresent Lord.
Guests, mine guests are the dear saints, O my Lord.
The dear saints adjusted mine affairs, when I did them homage and took to their service.
God Himself is the groom's man, Himself the bride's man, Himself the Master and Himself the marriage-god.
His affair, the Lord Himself arranges and he himself sustains the universe.
Says Nanak, the Bridegroom is sitting in my home, so adorned look my beautiful gates.
The nine treasures, the nine treasures, then enter my home.
Everything, everything do I obtain By meditating on the Lord's Name.
By remembering the Name with equipoise and devotion, the Lord of the world becomes man's helper, for aye.
His calculation is ended, his wandering ceases and anxiety never clings to his mind.
When the Lord becomes manifest, spontaneous music plays and a scene of wondrous splendour is enacted.
Says Nanak, when the Beloved is with me, then, do I obtain the nine treasures.
Over-joyed, over-joyed became all my brothers and friends.
By meeting the Guru, I have won the very toilsome (hard) battle of the arena.
On meeting the Guru, I repeated God's Name, razed to the ground the walls of the castle of doubt, and obtained the victory.
I obtained the wealth of many treasures and the Lord Himself stood by to assist me.
That man is the sublime divine and he the chief, whom the Lord has made His own.
Says Nanak, when the Lord is on my side, then my brothers and friends rejoice.
Asa 5th Guru.
Indescribable is the sermon of the Ineffable Lord Master. It cannot be knows even a little.
The demigods, man, angelic persons and the silent sages have serenely expressed it.
In equipoise they recite the ambrosial Gurbani and embrace love for Lord's louts feet.
By meditating on the one incomprehensible and Immaculate Lord, they obtain their heart. desired boons.
Forsaking self-conceit, worldly love, sin and duality, the mortal's light merges into the supreme light.
Prays Nanak, by Guru's grace man ever enjoys God's love.
God's saints, God's saints alone are my friends, intimates and helpers.
By the greatest good luck, the greatest good luck I have obtained the society of saints.
Through good destiny I have obtained the saints' guild and have meditated on the Name, and my anguish and affliction are removed.
I have clung to Guru's feet and my doubt and dread have fled. The Lord Himself has effaced my self-conceit.
Showering His benediction, the Lord has united me with His ownself, and now I shall neither suffer separation, nor go anywhere.
Supplicates Nanak, O God, I am Thy slave and I ever seek Thine protection.
At Thy gate, thy gate, O Lord God, Thine loved devotees look dignified.
O Lord, I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice and ever a sacrifice unto them.
I make obeisance and am ever devoted unto them, by meeting whom I have known the Lord.
The Perfect and Omnipotent Creator is contained in every heart and all the places.
Meeting the Perfect Guru, he who meditates on the Name, loses not his life in a gamble.
Supplicates Nanak, O Lord, I have sought Thy protection, show mercy and save me.
Numberless, numberless are Thine merits, O Lord. How many of them can I sing?
The dust of Thy feet, Thy feet my Master, I have obtained through the greatest good destiny.
Bathing in God's dust, filth is washed off and departs the Pain of birth and death.
Within and without, the Transcendent Lord Master is ever present with the mortal.
By singing Lord's praise, peace ensues, pain ends, and man enters not existences (births), again.
Prays Nanak, in Guru's refuge, man swims across and becomes pleasing to his Lord.
Asa 5th Guru. Chhant.
There is but one God By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
With God's lotus feet my mind is pierced through and none other than Lord, the King, is sweet to me.
Meeting the society of saints, I meditate on God and see the Sovereign Lord in all the hearts.
I see God in every heart and Lord's Nectar rains on me, and my pain of birth and death has fled.
By singing the praises of God, the treasure of merits, my sorrow is all effaced, and my knot of pride is loosened.
By His natural disposition, my Beloved, leaving me, goes no where and my soul has adopted the fast colour of madder.
The Lord's louts feet have pierced Nanak's mind, and now nothing else seems sweet unto him.
As the fish cherishes water, so am I intoxicated with the Nectar of Lord master, the King.
The Perfect Guru has instructed me and I love my Lord; the King, who has blessed me with present salvation.
They, whom Lord, the Knower of hearts, attaches to His skirt, obtain salvation while, alive.
God is an invaluable wealth, and is manifest and fully contained amongst all, and forsaking them He goes not elsewhere,
The Lord Master is accomplished, beauteous and sagacious (wise) and His bounties exhaust not.
The fish is satiated with water, and so in the Lord, Nanak is absorbed.
As the pied-cuckoo craves for rain-drop, so Lord God, the King, is the support of my life.
The Sovereign Lord to me is dearer than all the wealth, treasure, son, brother and friend.
The detached Lord is dearer to me than all and His state none can comprehend.
I never forget God, even for a single breath and morsel, and under Guru's instruction I enjoy His love.
The perfect Master is the life of the universe and the saints quaff His Nectar, and meditating on Him, shake off their doubt, worldly love and distress.
As the pied-cuckoo longs for rain-drop, so is the Lord dear unto Nanak.
By meeting with my Lord Master, the King, my desire is fulfilled.
The wall of doubt is razed by meeting the valiant Guru, O Lord the King.
The Perfect Guru is obtained through the eternal writ of God. Who is the Giver of all the treasure and is merciful to the meek.
In the beginning, the middle, the end is He alone, the Beauteous and great Lord, the World-Cherisher.
The dust of saints feet purifies the sinners and bestows immense joy, peace and happiness.
The Omnipresent Lord God has met Nanak, and his desire is fulfilled.
Asa 5th Guru. Chhant.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Slok.
They, to whom the Master becomes merciful, meditate on the Lord God.
Meeting the society of saints, O Nanak, they embrace love for the Lord.
Chhant.
My soul, enshrine such love for God, as is the love of water for milk, which now allows not milk to burn.
Now, intoxicated in the fragrance of the louts, the bumble bee becomes entangled and leaves it not even for a moment.
Relax not a while thy love for God and dedicate to Him all thine ornaments and enjoyments.
Where wailings are heard and Death's way is pointed, there by Virtues of the society of saints, thou shalt feel no fear.
Sing thou the praises and merits of God and all thine sins and sorrows shall depart.
Says Nanak, chant the songs of Lord God, O man, contract thou love with God and in thy mind bear God such an affection.
As a fish loves water and is composed not without it, even for a trice, so O mind, love thou the Master.
As a pied-cuckoo, thirsty for rain drops, chirrups every moment "rain, O beautiful cloud".
So love thou thy God, give to Him this soul and thoroughly fix thy attention on Lord, the killer of Mur demon.
Don't take pride, seek God's refuge and be a sacrifice unto His vision.
When the Guru is greatly pleased, the bride sends the massage of her true love and her parted Spouse comes and meets her.
Says Nanak, sing thou the rhythm of the Infinite Lord, O my soul and love Him and enshrine thou such an affection for Him.
The Sheldrake is in love with the sun, and thinks of it, She has great longing as to when she shall behold the sun.
The cuckoo is in love with the mango, and sings sweetly. So do thou love God, O my soul.
Love God and take not pride, as all are but guests of a single night.
Now, why art thou involved in revelments and engrossed in worldly attachments? The mortal comes and goes naked.
By seeking saints' shelter and falling at his Feet, the secular attachment, which thou now feelest, shall depart and thou shalt becomes immortal.
Says Nanak, sing thou the hymns of the Merciful Master and enshrine affection for God, O man, otherwise how shalt thou see God, the Sun?
As the deer at night, hearing with his ears the sound of the bell, gives his heart, so love thou the Lord, O man.
As the wife, entangled in love of her husband, serves her darling, so give thou this heart to thy Beloved,
Give thy heart to thy Love and enjoy His bed (society). Thus shalt thou experience all joy and bliss.
I have obtained my love, assumed red colour and met my Friend (God) after a very long time.
When the Guru became the intercessor, then I saw the Lord with mine eyes. None else appears to me like my Beloved.
Says Nanak, sing thou the Chhant (hymns) of the compassionate and fascinating Lord. O man, grasp God's Feet and bear thou Him such love in thy mind.
Asa 5th Guru.
Slok.
Of roaming and searching from forest to forest and having ablutions at holy places I have become very weary.
Nanak, When I met with the saints, I found my God within my mind.
Chhant.
Whom countless silent sages and so many penitents seek for;
On whom million of Brahmas meditate and whose Name is uttered by the gnostics;
Contemplation, austerity, equanimity, religious rites, worship, so many purifications,
wandering over the earth, bathing at holies and obeisance are practiced by people to seek meeting the Pure Lord.
Whom the men, forests, grass-blades, beasts and birds all meditate on;
meeting the society of saints, O Nanak, salvation is attained and That compassionate and Beloved World-Lord is found.
Millions of incarnations of Vishnu and Shiv, with matted-hair,
desire Thee, O Kind Lord, with endless longing of their mind and body.
Infinite and Inaccessible is Lord, the World-Sustainer, and He is the Omnipresent wealthy Master.
The gods, perfect persons, heavenly heralds and celestial singers contemplate on Thee. The super gods and heavenly dancers utter Thine praises.
Myriads of Kings, gods and many super-human beings remember the Lord and hail Him.
The Merciful Master is the Patron of the patronless and one is saved by joining the society of saints, O Nanak.
Whom millions of goddesses and deities of wealth serve in diverse way.
Whom invisible and visible begins, wind, water, day and night worship.
Whom remember the stars, the moon and the sun, and whose praise the earth and the sky sing.
Whom all the sources of production and languages remember ever and ever.
On whom meditate the Simritis, the Puranas, the four Vedas and the six Shashatras.
That Lord, the Purifier of the sinners and the Lover of His saints, is met through the society of saints, O Nanak.
As much as the Lord made known to me, that much does my tongue utter.
They, of whom I know not, serve Thee, and of them there cannot be a count.
Imperishable is the Lord and within and without, all over, He is.
We are all beggars, Thou alone art the Giver and Thou art not remote, rather art present and manifest.
Thou art in the power of Thine devoted slaves and the mortals who meet Thee, their praise how can I recount?
May Nanak obtain this boon and honour of placing his head on the saints feet.
Asa, 5th Guru.
Slok.
Make effort, ye, very fortunate, and meditate on Lord God, the King.
Nanak, by remembering Him, ye shall have all the peace and your troubles, pains and doubts shall disappear.
Chhant.
Be not lazy in repeating the World-Lord's Name.
Meeting with the saints, man goes not to the Death-Courier's City.
Meditating on The Name man is ever happy, and trouble, pain and fear cling to him not.
With every breath, meditate thou on the Lord God, and with Thy mouth heartily remember the Master.
O Kind and compassionate Lord, the Store of elixir and the Treasure of excellences, mercifully attach me to Thine service.
Prays Nanak, meditate thou on God's Feet and be not indolent in repeating Lord's Name
Purificator of the sinners is the pure Name of the Immaculate Lord.
The salve of Guru's Divine knowledge. removes the darkness of doubt.
By the salve of Guru's divine knowledge one perceives the Immaculate Lord, fully contained in water, land and sky.
He, within whose mind the Lord abides even for a moment, his sorrow disappear.
Perfect Lord's knowledge is incomprehensible. He is the Destroyer of the fear of all.
Prays Nanak, I think of God's Feet. Purifier of the sinners is the pure Name of the Pure Lord.
I have grasped the protection of the merciful Lord, the treasure of grace.
I have the support of Thine feet and in Thy refuge lies my success, O Lord.
The Lord God's Feet are the cause of causes and by His grace, the Lord Master saves the sinners.
Good many are saved and cross the terrible world-ocean by contemplating on The Name
In the beginning and the end, countless seek the Lord, I have heard that the society of saints is the way to emancipation.
Says Nanak, meditate I on God's Feet (Name) and enter the sanctuary of the kind. Cherisher of the world, an ocean of compassion.
God is the Lover of His saints and this is His self-made nature.
Wheresoever the saints invoke the Lord, there is He revealed.
His saints the Lord spontaneously merges with Himself and adjusts their affairs.
In God's praise, they obtain peace and supreme bliss and forget all sorrows.
The flash and light of the one Lord, they behold in ten directions.
Prays Nanak, meditate on the Lord's Feet, who has taken upon Himself the duty of loving His devotees.
Asa 5th Guru.
Ever stable is the Spouse of the saints, He dies and departs not.
She, in whose home is God, the Groom, ever enjoys Him.
Imperishable and Immortal is He, the Lord and is ever young and stainless.
The Lord is not distant and is ever present and He fills the ten directions for ever and aye.
He is the Lord of the soul, from whom proceed salvation and wisdom. Unto me is dear and pleasing the love of the Beloved.
Nanak utters what he has come to know from Guru's instruction. Eternal is the saints' Groom, who neither dies nor departs.
She who has God for her Husband, enjoys great bliss.
Happy is that wife and perfect becomes her glory.
Singing God's praise, she attains, honour, greatness and happiness. He, the great Lord, is ever with her.
She has all perfection and nine treasures and her home is wanting in nothing; it contains all things.
Sweet is her speech and obeys she her Beloved and permanent becomes her married status.
Nanak says, what he has come to know through the Guru's teaching. She who has Lord for her spouse, enjoys great happiness.
Come, O mate, to the saints and let us apply ourselves to their service.
Let us grind their corn, wash their feet and shed our self-conceit.
Let us shed our ego and display not ourselves. Thus is our trouble removed.
Let us grasp Guru's protection, obey him and be happy with whatever he does.
Let us perform the service of God's slave, dispel care, be wakeful, and, day and night, stand before him with joined hands.
Nanak states, whatever he has come to know from Guru's instruction. Come to the saint, O mate, and let us apply ourselves to his service.
He, who has good destiny recorded on his forehead, him the Lord yokes to his service.
He, who has obtained the society of saints, his desire is fulfilled.
In the society of saints, man is absorbed in God's love and takes to Lord's meditation.
Doubt, worldly love and sin of duality, he abandons all.
Peace, poise and sublime faith dwell in his mind, and with joy and delight he sings God's praise.
Nanak utters what he has come to know from Guru's teaching. He alone applies himself to service, on whose forehead such destiny is written.
Asa 5th Guru.
Slok.
Meditating on the Lord God's Name. Death's courier says nothing to the mortal.
Nanak, his soul and body are at peace and in the end, he meets the World-Cherisher.
Chhant.
May I meet the society of saints, from where rescue me, O my Master.
With clasped hands I make supplication before Thee, O Lord Master, to grant me Thy Name.
By Thine grace, O Lord, I ask for Thy Name, fall at Thine feet and shed my self-conceit.
O Lord, the embodiment of compassion, take pity on me, that I may remain in Thy refuge and wander not elsewhere.
O Omnipotent, Ineffable, Infinite and Immaculate Lord, hear Thou this supplication of mine.
With joined hands, Nanak asks for this boon, "O Lord, mercifully end Thou my coming and going" (transmigration of soul).
I am a sinner, devoid of wisdom meritless, destitute and vile.
I am stupid, stone-hearted, of low caste and entangled in the mud of worldly love.
I am stuck in the filth of doubt and acts of egotism and egoism, and I am ignoring death.
Through spiritual ignorance I am clung to the pleasure of woman and joy of mammon.
My youth is wearing off, old age is progressing and the death, my companion, is counting my days.
Prays Nanak, my hope is in Thee, O Lord. Keep lowly Nanak in the asylum of Thy saints.
I have wandered through many births and have suffered great pangs in these existences.
Deeming revelments and gold sweet, I have become entangled with them.
I have come after wandering in existences with immense loads of sins and have roamed through many foreign lands.
Now I have taken the protection of Lord, the Enemy of pride, and have found all comforts in God's Name.
My Beloved Lord is my Saviour. By me nothing was or shall be done.
Through Thine mercy, Nanak has obtained peace, poise and pleasure and has swim across the world- ocean.
The nominal saints, the Lord has saved. What doubt should the real devotees have?
By every possible means, listen thou to the Lord God's praise with thine ears.
Hearing with thy ears the hymns of the Great Divine Guru, thou shalt obtain in thy mind the Name treasure.
Imbued with the love of Lord God, the Creator, sing thou the praise of the Omnipresent Being.
If the earth be the paper, the forests, the pen and the writer the wind,
the end of the Endless Lord cannot be found. Nanak, I have grasped the protection of His feet.
Asa 5th Guru.
The Fortunate Master is the Lord of Men, and His protection I have grasped.
Fear-free has become my life and my anxiety is all removed.
I look upon God as my mother, father, son, friend, well-wisher and dear relation.
The Guru forced me to meet and closely embrace Him, whose pure praise saints utter.
He has infinite virtues and limitless greatness and His worth cannot be told even a little.
The Lord Master is Unseen, One and Unique. His protection I, O Nanak, have grasped.
The world becomes a spring of Nectar, when the Lord Himself becomes the Helper.
The garland of Lord's name around the neck and the days of poison of the man.
His state of doubt, attachment and sins are effaced and his, again entering into womb is all ended.
Holding fast the saints' skirt, the ocean of fire is cooled.
O saints, proclaim the victory of All-powerful and Merciful God, the Lord of universe and the Cherisher of the world.
Meditating on the Perfect Lord's Name, in the society the supreme rank.
Wherever I behold, there I find the one Lord abiding with all.
In every heart, the Lord Himself abides. Rare is the persons who realises this.
The Lord is fully filling the ocean, land sky and is equally contained in ant and an elephant.
In the beginning, the end and the middle is He, the Lord. By Guru's grace is He known.
The Lord Creator is pervading the world-play, and God's slaves call Him the Treasure of virtues.
Meditate thou on Lord, the Knower of hearts, O Nanak, as the One God is contained, all over.
Day and night become beauteous by remembering the God's Name.
By love with Lord's louts feet, vice and sin depart.
Pain, hunger and poverty flee away and the man sees the true path clearly.
Joining the saints society, man is imbued with the Name and obtains his hearty boon.
By beholding the sight of God, man's desire is fulfilled and his whole family and all the ancestors (associates) are saved.
Day and night, night and day, man remains in joy, O Nanak, by meditating on the Lord God.
Asa 5th Guru. Chhant.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Slok.
To utter Lord's Name, in the immaculate society of saints, is a sublime deliberation.
O Fortunate Lord, show mercy unto Nanak, that he may not forget Thy Name, even for a moment.
Chhant.
The night is wet with dew and the stars glitter;
the saintly persons, beloveds of my Lord, remain awake.
The lovers of the Omnipresent Lord ever remain wakeful, end night and day remember the Name.
In their mind they dwell upon God's louts feet and forget not the Lord even for an instant.
They shed their mind's sin, pride and worldly love, and burn the pain of wickedness.
Prays Nanak, the serfs of God, the dear saints, ever keep awake.
My mind-couch has acquired splendid adornment.
Within my mind, joy has sprung up since I heard that my Lord was approaching.
On meeting the Lord Master, I have entered the realm of peace and am filled with essence of joy and delight.
The Lord clung to my bosom, my sorrows fled and my soul, mind and body, all bloomed afresh.
I have obtained my heart's desire by remembering the Lord. The time of my wedding, I account auspicious.
Supplicates Nanak, when I met the Lord of excellence, I attained the essence of all the pleasures.
My mates meet me and say, "Tell us the distinctive sign of thy Spouse".
I was so filled with the elixir of His love, that I could not say anything.
The attributes of the Creator are profound, mysterious and boundless. The Vedas know not His limit.
With devotion and love I meditate on the Lord and ever sing God's praise.
Being full of all virtues and sublime wisdom, I have become pleasing to my Master.
Prays Nanak, I am imbued with the dye of Lord's love, and am easily absorbed in Him.
When I began to sing songs of joy to God,
my friends became glad and my troubles and my enemies fled away.
My happiness and comfort increased, I rejoiced in God's Name and the Lord Himself bestowed mercy on me.
I clung to God's Feet, and being ever wakeful, I met Lord, the Creator.
Auspicious days came and I attained poise. All the treasures are in Lord's Feet.
Supplicates Nanak, God's slaves ever seek Lord's asylum.
Asa 5th Guru.
Get up and go, O traveler, why doest thou make delay?
Thine appointed time is complete and why art thou engrossed in falsehood?
Thou covetest what is false and, because of the deceit of mammon, thou committest numberless sins.
O wretched man, Death's myrmidon has sighted thee, thou shalt be overcome by Death and thy body shall be a heap of dust.
Abandoning wealth and youth, thou shalt depart and thou shalt be shorn of raiment and food.
Nanak, thine actions shall go with thee. The effects of actions cannot be effaced.
Lo, as a dear is ensnared on a moon-lit night,
so from pleasure and commission of sins ever results pain.
The sins thou hast committed shall leave thee not. Putting a halter round the neck, they shall goad thee away.
Thou art deceived by beholding an optical illusion and on thy couch thou enjoyest but a false lover.
With greed, avarice and ago, thou art intoxicated and in self-conceit thou art engrossed.
Nanak, like the deer, thou art destroyed, through ignorance, and cease not Thine comings and goings.
The fly is caught in the sweets. How can it take flight?
When the elephant has fallen into a pit, how can it escape?
To swim across shall be difficult for her, who remembers not her Spouse even for an instant.
Her sufferings, and punishments, are beyond reckoning and she obtains the fruit of her actions.
The hidden deeds are laid bare and she is ruined here and hereafter.
Nanak, without the True Guru, the self-willed egotist is defrauded.
God's slaves live by clinging to Lord's Feet.
The Lord hugs to His bosom those who seek His protection.
God gives them power, intellect, gnosis and meditation, and He Himself makes them repeat His Name.
The Lord Himself is the society of saints and He himself savers the world.
The Preserver preserver those, whose acts are ever pure.
Nanak, they never go to hell. God's saints are under God's protection.
Asa 5th Guru.
Get away, O my sloth, that I may pray to my Lord.
I enjoy my spouse and look beauteous in Lord's company.
Beauteous I look in the company of my Groom, the Lord, and day and night I enjoy Him.
I live by remembering the Lord with every breath, and by seeing God and singing His Praise.
Separation feels shy, for I have seen my spouse's sight and His ambrosial look has irrigated me.
Prays Nanak, my desire is fulfilled, for I have met Him, whom I was looking for.
Run away O ye sins as my Creator has visited my home (heart).
The demons within me are burnt as the Lord of the world is revealed to me.
Manifest unto me is the Beloved Lord, the World Cherisher and in the society of saints I repeat His Name.
I have seen the wondrous Lord, He sprinkles Nectar on me and by Guru's grace I have known Him.
My soul is pacified and overjoyed. Lord's limit cannot be found.
Says Nanak, the man's union with the Lord, in peace and poise, is effected by the Lord.
Man sees not the hell, by meditating on the Pervading God.
The Righteous Judge hails them and the Death's Couriers flee away.
By pondering over God, in the saints guild, man attains faith, patience, poise and peace.
Showering His benediction, the Lord has delivered those who have abandoned all the worldly-love and self-hood.
The Guru unite them with the Lord. He hugs them to His bosom. Contemplating on their Lord they are sated.
Supplicates Nanak, by remembering the Lord, all the hopes are realised.
If I grasp, Lord's Feet, the treasure of miracles, what sufferings can, then, befall me?
He alone, in whose power are all the things, is my Lord.
Holding me by the arm, the Lord has blessed me with His Name and, placing His hand on my frontal, He has saved me.
The world-ocean affects me not, for I have quaffed the immortalising elixir of God.
Through the saints' congregation and the Name's love, I have won the great contest of the world battlefield.
Prays Nanak, when I am under the Lord's protection, death's myrmidon shall destroy me not again.
Asa 5th Guru.
What man does, by day and night, that is recorded on his forehead.
He, from whom he conceals it, is with him and sees his acts.
The Creator is with him and watches his deeds. So why should he commit sins?
Do virtuous deeds, repeat the Name and thou shalt not, ever, go to hell.
During the eight watches of the day, remember thou God's Name, and it shall go with thee.
Ever meditate on the Lord, in the guild of saints, O Nanak, and the sins committed by the, shall be effaced.
By practising deceit, thou fillest thy belly, O ignorant fool.
God, the Giver, continuously gives thee everything.
The Beneficent Lord is ever merciful. Why should we forget Him from our mind?
Join the society of saints, dauntlessly dwell upon the Lord, and thus shall save thine entire lineage.
The Name is the support of the perfect persons, strives, gods, silent sages and devotees.
Prays Nanak, ever meditate thou on Lord, the sole Creator.
Practise not deception, as the Lord is the Assayer of all.
They who practise falsehood and deceit, are born, again in this world.
They alone, who deliberate over the one Lord, cross the world ocean.
They abandon lust, wrath, flattery and slander and enter the sanctuary of the Lord.
The lofty, inaccessible and infinite Lord is pervading the sea, the land and the sky.
Supplicates Nanak, God is the support of His slaves and His lotus-feet are their sustenance.
Lo, the world is phantom-city (mirage) and nothing is ever stable.
The revelments of the world that there are, they, go not with the mortal.
God, Thy Companion is ever with thee. Remember Him day and night.
Without one God, there is not any other. Burn thou the love of another.
Deem in thy mind, that the Lord alone is thy friend, thy youth, thy wealth and thine all.
Prays Nanak, through the greatest good fortune, he who obtains God, merges into pleasure and peace.
Asa 5th Guru. Chhant.
There is but One God. By true Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Mammon is the wall of doubt; Mammon is the wall of doubt. Strong and degenerating is its intoxication and life attached to it, goes in vain.
In the dense and awful world-forest, in the dense and awful world-forest, alas! the thieves are plundering man's house, in broad day- light, and night and day are eating up his life.
The Day are eating up the life, which is passing away without the Lord. Meet thou, therefore, God, the Lord of mercy.
Many births and deaths have passed through, but without the union of the Beloved, without obtaining salvation.
I am a without good lineage, beauty, glory and Diving Knowledge. Who is mind without Thee O God, my Mother?
With joined hands, Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary. O my very powerful, Beloved Lord, emancipate Thou me.
Alas! as the mind and body of a fish out of water, a fish out of water, perishes by separation from the water, so, do I live without my Love?
The deer head-on bears the arrow, head-on bears the arrow, and being pierced through with the soothing tune, he surrenders his soul, body and very life.
I have enshrined love for my Beloved and to meet Him I have become the world-renouncer. Accursed is the body, which remains without Him, even for a trice.
My eye-lids close not, I am absorbed in the love of my Dear One. My mind, night and day, thinks of the Lord.
Imbued with the Lord of wealth and intoxicated with His Name, I have shed all fear, doubt and duality.
Bestow Thine mercy and compassion, O King and all-pervading God, that Nanak may be intoxicated with Thy love.
The bumble-bee is humming, the bumble-bee is humming, fascinated with the savour, fragrance and honey of flowers, and on account of its love for the lotus, it entangle itself.
The heart of the pied-cuckoo thirst, the heart of the pied-cuckoo thirsts, its mind longs for the beautiful cloud drops, drinking which, the fever of the pied-cuckoo departs.
Meet me, O Thou Destroyer of burning and the Remove of pain. Within my soul and body there is very excessive love for Thee.
My beauteous, wise and Omniscient Lord, with what tongue should I utter Thine praises?
Grasp me by the arm and grant me Thy Name. He, on whom Thou casteth a merciful glance, has his sins erased.
Nanak, meditates on God, the Purifier of sinners, Seeing His vision one suffers no hardship.
Within my mind I meditate on the Lord, within my mind I meditate on the Lord. Keep me who is helpless under Thine protection I delight to meet Thee and my soul longs for Thee.
My attention is fixed on Thine beautiful body, my attention is fixed on Thine beautiful body, my soul is fascinated by Thy knowledge, O World Cherisher, and Thou art to preserve the honour of Thy slaves and beggars.
The Lord, who bestows full honour and destroys anguish, has fulfilled all my desires.
Very auspicious is the day when God embraces me to his bosom and on meeting my spouse, my couch is adorned.
When Lord, the Enemy of pride shows mercy and meets me, then all my sins get erased.
Supplicates Nanak, my hope is realised and I have met Lord, the Pioneer of prosperity and the Treasure of excellences (virtues.).
There is but One God. True is His Name and creative His personality. He is without fear, without enmity, Immortal in from, Unborn and self-illumined. By Guru's grace He is obtained.
Asa 1st Guru. The dirge of praise with sloks, The sloks, too of the first Guru are written.
The stanzas should be sung to the tune of Tunda As Raja.
Slok 1st Guru.
A hundred times a day, I am a sacrifice unto my Guru,
who without making any delay, make angles out of men.
2nd Guru.
If hundred moons arise and a thousand suns appear,
even with such light, there would be pitch darkness without the Guru.
1st Guru.
Nanak, they who think not of the Guru and in their heart deem themselves very clever,
shall be left forlorn in the reaped field like a spurious sesame.
They are left in the field says Nanak and they have a hundred owners.
The wretches bear fruit and flower, but still, within their body they have but ashes.
Pauri.
The Lord, of Himself created His ownself and assumed He Himself the Name.
Secondly He made the creation and seated therein, He beholds it with delight.
Thou Thyself art the Donor and Creator and being pleased, Thou bestoweth and shower mercy.
Thou art the Knower of all and Thou givest and takest life with a word.
Abiding within, Thou beholdest Thy creation with delight.
Slok 1st Guru.
True are Thy continents and true Thine solar systems.
True are Thine worlds and true Thy creation.
True are Thine doings and all the deliberation.
True is Thy order and true Thy court.
True is Thy will and true Thy order.
True is Thy grace and true Thy sign.
Lacs and millions call Thee true.
In the True Lord is all power and all might.
True is Thy praise and true thy commendation.
O True King, true is Thine Omnipotence.
Nanak, true are they who remember the true One.
They who are born and die, are the falsest of the false.
1st Guru.
Great is Lord's glory, as great is His Name.
Great is His glory, as true is His justice.
Great is His glory, as, stable is His seat.
Great is His glory, as he knows our utterances.
Great is His glory, as He understands all our affections.
Great is His glory, as He gives gifts without being asked for.
Great is His glory, as He Himself is all in all.
Nanak, His acts cannot be narrated.
What He did or shall do, is all His own will.
2nd Guru.
This world is the True Lord's chamber and within it is the abode of the True One.
Some, by His order, He absorbs in Himself, and some, by His order, He destroys.
Some at His pleasure, He withdraws from mammon, and others He causes to abide therein.
This too cannot be said, as to whom He will reclaim.
Nanak, he alone is known to be Guru-ward unto whom the Lord reveals Himself.
Pauri.
Creating the beings, God has installed the Righteous Judge to record their accounts.
There, only the truth is adjusted true and the sinners are picked up and separated out.
The false find no place there and they go to hell with blackened faces.
They who are imbued with Thy Name win, O Lord, They who are cheats they lose the day.
God has installed Dharamraj to record the accounts.
Slok 1st Guru.
Marvellous (wonderful) is Thy word and marvellous Thy knowledge.
Marevllous are Thine creatures and marvellous their species.
Marvellous are Thine forms and marvellous their colours.
Marvellous are the beings, who wander naked.
Wonderful is Thy wind and wonderful Thy water.
Wonderful is Thy fire, which works wonders.
Wonderful is the earth and wonderful the sources of production.
Wonderful are the revelments to which the mortals are attached.
Wonderful is the union and wonderful the separation.
Wonderful is the hunger and wonderful repletion.
Wonderful is Thy praise and wonderful Thy eulogy.
Wonderful is the wilderness and wonderful the path.
Wonderful is Thy nearness and wonderful the remoteness from Thee.
wonderful is to behold Thee just present.
Beholding Thine wonders, wonder-struck am I.
Perfectly fortunate are they, O Nanak, who realise this.
1st Guru.
By Thy power we see, by Thy power we hear and by thy power we fear and have the essence of happiness.
By Thine power exist the nether regions and skies and by Thine power exists the entire creation.
By Thine power are the Vedas, the Puranas and the Islamic, Christian and Jewish books, and by Thine power is all deliberation.
By Thy power is eating, drinking and dressing, and by Thy power if all love.
By Thine power are species, kinds and colours, and by Thine, power the living beings of the world.
By Thine power are virtues and by thine power the vices. By Thine power are honour and dishonour.
By Thy power are wind, water and fire and by Thy power are the earth and dust.
Everything, is Thy might. Thou t the Omnipotent Creator, and Thy Name is the holiest of the holy.
Says Nanak, through Thy pleasure, Thou O Lord beholdest and pervadest everything Altogether unrivalled Thou art.
Pauri.
Enjoying revelments, man himself becomes a heap of ashes and his soul passes away.
When the worldly man dies, a chain is thrown around his neck and he is led away.
There, his good and bad acts are read out to this and seating Him his account to explained to him.
When thrashed, he finds no place of shelter, but none hears his bewailing now.
The blind man has wasted away his life.
Slok 1st Guru.
In Lord's fear wind and breeze ever blow.
In Lord's fear flow lacs of rivers.
In Lord's fear fire is forced to perform labour.
In Lord's fear the earth is trampled under burden.
In Lord's fear the cloud moves head-long.
In Lord's fear Dharamraj (righteous Judge) stands at His door.
In Lord's fear is retrained the sun and in Lord's fear the moon.
They travel myriads of miles without an end.
In Lord's fear are the men of miracles, Bhudhas, the demigods and the Yogis.
In Lord's fear is stretched the sky.
In Lord's fear are the warriors and the very powerful heroes.
In Lord's fear multitudes come and go.
The Lord has written the writ of His fear on the heads of all.
Nanak, the True Formless Lord alone is fearless.
1st Guru.
Nanak the Formless Lord alone is fearless, and many others like Ram are as dust before Him.
Good many are the stories of Krishan and good many the reciters of Vedas.
Many a beggar dance and, turning and bending round, beat the time.
The guisers come in the market place and exhibit a false show.
They sing as King and queens and speak of the upper and the lower regions.
They wear ear-rings worth lacs of rupees and necklace worth lakhs.
The bodies on which they are worn, O Nanak, those bodies becomes ashes.
Divine Knowledge is not sought by mere worlds. To explain it is hard like iron.
If one becomes the recipient of Lord's grace, then alone he obtains it. Other devices and orders are ruinous.
Pauri.
If the merciful Master shows His mercy, then, is the True Guru obtained.
This soul wandered through many births and then, the True Guru communicated to it the Name.
There is no benefactor so great as the True Guru, Hear this, all, O ye people.
By meeting the Satguru, who has removed self-conceit from within him,
and who preaches all truth, attains the True Lord.
Slok First Guru.
All the hours are milk-maids and the quarters of a day are Krishans and herds-men.
The wind, water and the fire are the ornaments and the moon and the sun are the incarnations.
All the goods of the earth, property, wealth and other things of use, are all entanglements
Nanak, one without the Divine Knowledge is plundered and the Death's Minister devours him.
1st Guru.
The disciples play the music and the preceptors dance.
They move their feet and roll their heads.
Dust flies, flies and falls on their head's hair.
Beholding them the, people laugh and go home.
For the sake of bread they beat the time.
They dash themselves against the ground.
Sing milk-maid and sing Krishans.
Sing Sitas and sing Ramas and Kings.
Fearless is the Formless Lord, whose Name is true,
and whose creation is the whole world.
The slaves, whose destiny is awakened, they serve their Lord.
Dewy (cool) is the night of those within whose mind is the Lord's love.
Pondering over the Guru, I have learnt the instruction,
that the Merciful Master, through His mercy, ferries His slave across.
The oil- press, spinning wheel, quern potters wheel,
and many and endless, desert, whirl--winds,
tops, the churning -staves, thrashers,
the breathless tumblings of the birds,
and mounted on the stakes the beings are whirled around,
Nanak, the tumblers are countless and endless.
He, the Lord, swings around the mortals, who are bound in entanglement.
According to the acts performed, every one dances.
They, who dance, dance and laugh, shall weep on their departure.
They fly not to the sky thereby, nor do they become adepets.
Dancing and leaping are mind's yearnings.
Nanak, those who have God's fear in their mind, in their mind is His love as well.
Pauri.
Thy Name is the Formless Lord and by repeating Thy Name man goes not to hell.
The soul and body are all His; the man eats what He gives, and to say ought else is to waste words.
If thou desirest thy good, O man, perform virtuous deeds and feel lowly.
If thou remove the signs of old-age, the old age shall come to thee in guise (of death etc.)
None remains here when his measure (of breaths) is full.
Slok 1st Guru.
The Muslims praise the Islamic law and they read and reflect upon it.
According to them the Lord's servants are only they, who fall in captivity (of orthodoxy of Islamic law) to see His sight.
The Hindus praise the Praiseworthy God, when they see in many a beauteous form.
They bathe at holy places, make flower -offerings and spread the perfume of eagle-wood before idols.
The Yogis, that there are, meditate on the Absolute Lord and name the Creator as Unseen.
But to the Lord of minute (form less) personality and of the immaculate Name, they give the form of a body.
In the mind of the generous, contentment is produced and they think of giving (in charity)
They give and ask in turn, a thousand times more hereafter and wish the world to honour them.
The thieves, adulterers, perjurers evil-doers and sinners.
Like the above, depart after eating here, what they had. Have they thus done any good deed?
There are beings in water, on land, in the worlds, in the universes and in the worlds, in the germs and microbes.
What they say, that thou knowest and for them, too, Thou carest.
But, the saints, O Nanak, hunger to praise Thee, O Lord, and the True Name is their mainstay.
The eternal beatitude, they abide, day and night, and they are the dust of the feet of the virtuous.
1st Guru.
The clay of a Muslim (in the grave after death) falls into the potter's clod.
From it vessels are fashioned and bricks made and it cries out as it burns.
The poor clay burns, burns and weeps and the fiery coals continually fall from to it.
Nanak God, the Creator, who made the world, alone knows, whether it is better to burn or bury.
Pauri.
Without the True Guru none has obtained the Lord; without the True Guru, none has obtained the Lord.
In the True Guru, the Lord has placed Himself, and I openly declare and proclaim it.
Salvation is obtained for aye, by meeting the True Guru, who has banished worldly attachment from within him.
The excellent idea (theme) is this that one attaches one's mind to the True Lord.
Like this, one attains the Beneficent Lord, the Life of the world.
Slok 1st Guru.
In pride man comes, in pride he departs.
In pride he is born, in pride he dies.
In pride he gives, in pride he takes.
In pride he earns, in pride he losses.
In pride he becomes true or false.
In pride he reflects on virtue or vice.
In pride he falls in hell or heaven.
In pride he laughs, in pride he weeps.
In pride he is soiled, in pride he is washed off.
In pride, he loses he castes and kind.
In pride, he is ignorant, in pride he is wise.
He knows not the worth of salvation and emancipation.
In pride he loves mammon and in pride he is shadowed by it.
By taking pride the beings are created.
If ego is stilled, then is the God's gate seen.
Without divine knowledge man prattles, prattles and wrangles.
Nanak, by Lord's order the destiny is recorded.
As men see Themselves, so God does see Them.
2nd Guru.
The nature of ego is this, that man goes about his business in pride.
The trammel of ego is this that man, again and again, enters into existences.
Where is ego born from and by what way is it removed?
This is the Lord's will that on account of ego men wander according to their past acts.
Ego is a chronic disease, but it has also its curing medicine.
If the Lord bestows His grace, then man acts according to Guru's instruction (And this is the cure for ago.)
Says Nanak, hear, O ye people in this way the trouble departs.
Pauri.
Only those do the real service who being contented, meditate on God, the truest of the true.
They place not their foot in sin, do good deeds and practise piety.
They burn (break) the worldly bonds and live on paltry corn and water.
Thou art a great Bestower and Ever, givest, which increase day by day.
By the praise of the Great God, man attains to Him.
Slok 1st Guru.
Men, trees, holy places, banks of sacred streams, clouds and fields,
islands, spheres, universes, continents and solar systems,
the sources of creation, egg-born, womb-born, earth-born and sweat-born,
and oceans, mountains and sentient beings; He, the Lord, knows their condition,
O Nanak, having created the beings, the Lord takes care of them all.
The Creator, who has created the world. He takes care of it as well.
He, the Fashioner who fashioned the universe, fells anxiety for it.
To whom is my obeisance and unto Him is my salutation, and Imperishable is His court.
Nanak, without the True Name, of what avail is frontal mark and of what a sacred thread?
1st Guru.
Lacs of virtues and good actions and lacs of approved charities,
lacs of penances at holy places and the practice of the way of Lord's union in wilderness,
lacs of valours and giving up of the breath in an engagement in the battle-field,
lacs of Divine comprehensions and concentrations and lacs of readings of Vedas and recitations of Puranas,
Who has made the world and has written coming and going
Nanak, before the Creator, these acts of wisdom are false and true is the mark of His grace.
Pauri.
Thou alone art the True Lord, who hast diffused the absolute truth.
He, to whom Thou givest, receives truth, and he, then, practises truth.
Truth is obtained by meeting the True Guru, in whose mind the truth abides.
The fools know not the truth, Being self-willed, they lose their life.
Why have they (such persons) come into the world?
Slok 1st Guru.
Man may read and study cart loads of books and he may read and study the entire multitudes of books.
He may read and study books and pit them in boats. He may read and study books and fill pits with them.
He may read year upon year and may study for all the months, that there are.
He may continue reading for his entire life and study with every breath of his.
Nanak, only one thing, God's Name is of account and all else is but to prate and prattle in pride.
1st Guru.
The more one writes and reads, the more one burns.
The more the man wanders on pilgrim stations, the more he talks.
The more he takes to religious grabs, the more discomfort he causes his body.
Endure, O my soul, the result of thine acts.
He who eats not corn, looses the relish of life.
Through love of another, man suffers great hardship.
He who wears not clothes, endures calamity, day and night.
Through silence, the man is ruined. How can the sleeping one be awakened without the Guru?
He who goes bare footed, obtains the fruit of his actions.
He, who eats fifth and throws ashes on his head.
He the blind fool, loses his honour.
Without the Name, nothing becomes acceptable.
He who dwells in wilderness and at burial and cremation-ground.
That blind man knows not the Lord and regrets afterwards.
He who meets the True Guru, attains peace.
God's name, he implants in his mind.
Nanak he to whom the Lord shows mercy attains Him.
From hope and fear, he becomes free and his ego, he burns with God's Name.
Pauri.
The Saints, O Lord, are pleasing to Thy mind, They look beautiful and sing Thine praises at Thy gate.
Nanak, they who are destitute of Thy favour find not shelter at Thine door and wander about.
Some know not origin and without cause exhibit their self-conceit.
I am the Lord's bard of low birth, others call themselves of high caste.
I ask for the society of those, who meditate on Thee.
Slok 1st Guru.
False is the King, false the subjects and false is the entire world.
False is the mansion, false the sky-scraper and false is the dweller therein.
False is gold, false is silver and false is the wearer.
False is the body, false is the raiment and false is peerless beauty.
False is husband and false is wife, who pine away and become miserable.
The false one loves what is false and forgets the Creator.
With whom should I contract friendship the whole world is to pass away.
False is sweetness and false is honey. In falsehood the boat loads are drowned.
Nanak, makes a supplication except Thee, O my Master, everything is thoroughly false.
1st Guru.
Then alone the man is known as true, if the truth be in his heart.
His filth of falsehood departs and he washed his body clean.
Then alone, man is known as true, if he bears love to the True One.
When the mind is enraptured on hearing the Name, then the mortal obtains the door of salvation.
Then alone is the man deemed to be true, if the knows the true way of life.
Preparing the body field, he puts into it the seed of the Creator.
Then alone is the mortal deemed to be true when he receives the true instruction.
He shows mercy to living beings and gives something in charity.
Then alone is one knows as true, when he abides in the pilgrimage station of his heart.
He takes instruction from the Guru and sits and abides according to his will.
Truth is the medicine for all and it removes and washed away the sin.
Nanak makes supplication unto those, who have truth in their lap.
Pauri.
For me gift it the dust of saints feet. If I obtain it, then, I shall apply it to my forehead.
Forsake false avarice and with single mind meditate thou on the Unseen Lord.
As are the deeds, we do, so is the fruit which we obtain.
If it is so writ in the beginning, then, the man obtains the dust of the feet of those Saints.
For reasons of meager intellect we lose the value of service.
Slok 1st Guru.
There is a famine of truth, falsehood prevails and the blackness of the Dark age has made men demons.
They, who have sown the seed of the Name have departed with honour. How can the broken seed sprout now?
if the seed be whole and there be the proper season, then the seed germinates.
Nanak, without a mordant, the brand new cloth cannot be dyed.
If the mordant of modesty be modesty be applied to the body it is washed white of sins in Lord's fear.
Nanak, if the man be imbed with the Lord's meditation, then, his repute is not false even in the least.
1st Guru.
Both avarice and sin are the King and Minister and falsehood is the Master of Mint.
Lust, the assistant official, is summoned and consulted and they all sit together and chalk out evil plans.
The subjects are blind and, without wisdom, they satisfy the Official's fire or greed with bribe carrion.
The divines dance, play musical instruments and disguise and decorate themselves.
They shout aloud and sing of epic poems and heroes tales.
The fools call themselves scholars and with devices and cavils, they love to amass wealth.
The virtuous disfigure their meritorious acts by asking for the door of salvation.
They call themselves continent leave their home and hearth and know not the way of life. imperfect and done call himself imperfect.
Everyone deems himself perfect and none call himself imperfect.
If the weight of honour be put into the hind scale, then alone, O Nanak, the man appears properly weighed.
1st Guru.
Wickedness becomes well known, but He, the True Lord sees everything, O Nanak.
Every one has taken a jump, but what the Creator does, that alone comes to pass.
In the next world, caste and power count not; hereafter, the mortal has to deal with the new beings.
A few, whose honour is of account, they are good.
Pauri.
Only they, whose destiny Thou, O Lord, hast so written from the beginning, meditate on thee.
Nothing is in the power of these creatures. Thou hast created the diverse worlds.
Some Thou unitest with Thyself and some thou leadest astray from Thee.
Thou art known by the grace of the Guru, through whom Thou revealest thyself.
They are easily absorbed in the True Lord.
Slok 1st Guru.
Pain is the medicine and pleasure the malady, and where there is pleasure, there is no desire for God.
Thou art the Doer, I can do nothing. Even if I try to do something, it comes to nothing.
Sacrifice am I unto Thee. who abides in His creation.
Thine limit cannot be comprehended. Pause.
Thy light is contained in the creatures and the creatures are contained in Thine light. Thou O mighty Inconceivable Lord, art filling all.
Thou art the True Lord, and beautiful is Thy praise. He who hymns it, swims across.
Nanak tells the tales of the Creator that what the Lord is to do, that He continues to do.
2nd Guru.
The way of union with the Lord is the way of Divine Knowledge but with the Brahmans, the way is through the Vedas.
Khatri's way is the way of bravery, of the Sudras the way is the service of others.
If any one knows the secret, the duty of all is one Lord's meditation.
Nanak is a serf of him who understands this as he himself is the immaculate Lord.
2nd Guru.
The One Lord is the God of all gods and he is the soul of their godliness.
If any one knows the mystery of the soul and the Omnipresent Lord,
of him Nanak, is a slave as he himself is the Pure Lord.
1st Guru.
As the water remains confined in a pitcher, but the pitcher cannot be shaped without water,
so the mind, controlled by Divine knowledge is restrained, but sans the Guru, there can be no gnosis.
Pauri.
if an educated person is the sinner, then an illiterate saints is not to be punished (because of his illiteracy).
As are the deeds a man does, so is the Name, he acquires.
Play not such a game, which may bring thee defeat on arriving at God's court.
Of the educated and the uneducated the accounts shall be adjudged, hereafter.
The head strong shall be thrashed in the next World.
Slok 1st Guru.
Nanak, the prime human body has one chariot and one charioteer.
They change after every age and the divines understand this.
In the Gold-age, contentment is the carriage and piety the driver in front.
In the Sliver-age, continence is the carriage and power the driver, in front.
In the Brass-age penance is the carriage and truth the driver in front.
In the Iron-age, fire is the chariot and falsehood, the charioteer, in front.
Slok 1st Guru.
Sam Ved, says, that the Lord is white-robed, and in the True age, every one desired truth, dwelt in truth,
and was absorbed in truth.
The Rig Ved says that God is fully contained every where;
and amongst the deities, the Lord's Name is the most exalted.
By uttering the Name, the sins depart,
and then, O Nanak, man obtains salvation.
In the time of Yujar Veda, Kan Krishan of Yadva tribe seduced Chandrawli by force.
He brought the elysian tree for his milk-maid and revelled in Bindraban.
In the Dark-age, Athrav Veda became prominent and Allah became the Name of God.
Men, then took to and wore blue robes and dresses, and Turks and Pathans exercised away.
The four Vedas were professed to be true.
By reading and studying them, one finds four doctrines in them.
When a person cherishs love and meditation of God and calls himself lowly,
it is then, O Nanak that he obtains salvation.
Pauri.
A sacrifice am I unto the True Guru, by meeting whom the Lord is remembered.
Who has instructed and given me the salv of gnosis and with these eyes I have seen the reality of the World.
The dealers who leave Spouse and attach themselves to another are drowned.
The True Guru is a boat but a few there, are, who realise this.
Showering his benediction, he ferries them across.
Slok 1st Guru.
The bombax hepta phylum tree is straight like an arrow. it is very tall and extremely thick.
(But) those several birds, which visit it with hope, depart disappointed.
Its fruits are insipid, flowers nauseating and leaves useless.
Sweetness and humility, O Nanak, is the essence of merits and virtues.
Everyone bows for himself None bows for another.
If a thing be placed in the pan of a balance and weighed, the side which descends that is the heavier.
The sinner like the deer hunter, bows twice as much.
What can be achieved by bowing the head, when the man goes with filthy mind?
1st Guru.
You read books, say vesper prayers and argue,
you worship stones and sit in trance like a crane.
With your mouth you utter falsehood like the precious ornaments,
and recite the three line Goatri three times a day.
Around your neck is the rosary, on your forehead the sacred mark,
and on your head is a towel and you have two loin cloths.
If you know the Nature of the Lord,
then you will find that all these beliefs and rites are vain.
Says Nanak, in Good faith meditate on the Lord.
Without the True Guru, man finds not the way.
Pauri.
Leaving comely raiment and beauty in this world, the man departs.
Man himself obtains the fruit of his bad and good deeds.
One may issue one's heart desired commands here, but he shall proceed by the narrow road hereafter.
All-naked when he goes to the hell, he then looks very hideous indeed.
He regrets the sins, he committed.
Slok 1st Guru.
Make compassion the cotton contentment the thread, continence the knot and truth the twist.
This is the sacred thread of the soul and if thou hast it, O Brahman then, put it on me.
If breaks not, nor it is soiled with filth nor it is burnt, nor lost.
Blessed are the mortals, O Nanak, who go wearing such a thread on their neck.
Thou buyest and bringest a thread for four shells and seated in an enclosure, putest it on.
The Brahman becomes religious preceptor and whispers instructions into the ears.
(But) that man dies and the sacrificial thread falls and the soul departs without the thread.
1st Guru.
Man commits lacs of thefts and lacs of adulteries and utters lacs of falsehoods and lacs of abuses.
He practises countless deceptions and villainies, night and day, with his fellow beings.
The thread is spun from cotton and the Brahman comes and twists it.
The goat is killed, cooked and eaten and everyone then says, put on the sacred thread.
When it wears off, it is thrown away and then another is put on over again.
Nanak, the thread would not break if it has any strength.
1st Guru.
By believing in the Name, honour, is produced and Lord's praise is the sacrificial thread.
Such a sacred thread is worn in the Lord's court and it breaks not.
1st Guru.
There is no thread for the sexual organ and no thread there is for the woman,
because of this, man's beard is daily and ever spat upon.
There is not thread for the feet and no thread for the hands.
No thread there is for the tongue and no thread for the eyes.
Without the thread the Brahman himself wanders about.
Twisting the threads, he puts them on others.
He takes remuneration for performing marriages,
Pulling out the calendar, he shows the way.
Hear and see, ye people, this strange thing.
While mentally blind, the Pandit is named Sujan (wise.)
Pauri.
The man to whom the Lord is compassionate and shows mercy, performs His service.
The servant, whom the Lord causes to abide by His order, serves Him.
By obeying His command, man becomes acceptable and then obtains the Master's mansion.
He who does that what pleases his Master, obtains the fruit his heart desires.
He, then goes to God's court, wearing the robe of honour.
1st Guru.
Thou chargest tax for the cow and the Brahman, but the cow-dung will not save thee.
Thou wearest a loin-cloth putest a frontal mark carriest a rosary and eats the Muslims provisions.
O Brother, within thou performest worship, outside thou readest Muslim books and adoptest Mohammedan way of life.
Lay aside the hypocrisy.
By taking God's Name. Thou shalt swim across.
1st Guru.
The man-eaters say the prayer.
They who wield the Scalpel (knife), wear thread round their neck.
In their home the Brahmans sound the couch.
They too have the same taste.
False is their capital they take their food.
By telling falsehood, they take their food.
The abode of modesty and piety is far from them.
Nanak, falsehood is fully filling them all.
With the sacrificial mark on the brow and on his waist the ochre-coloured loin-cloth.
In his hand he holds the knife he is verily the world butcher.
Wearing blue clothes, he becomes acceptable (in the eyes of Muslims).
Taking bread from the Muslims he worships Puranas.
He eats the he-goat killed by uttering the foreign (Muslim-Kalma) words.
He allows none to enter his cooking enclosure.
Plastering the ground he draws lines around it.
The false come and sit upon it.
They, shout "touch not, O touch not!
otherwise, this food of ours will be polluted".
With the polluted body, they commit evil deeds.
With the impure mind, they gargle their throat.
Says, Nanak, meditate thou on the True Lord.
If thou art unpolluted, then alone shalt thou obtain the True One.
Pauri.
All are within Thy mind and Thou seest and movest them beneath Thine glance, O Lord.
Thyself Thou grantest glory and Thyself causeth men to do deeds.
The Lord is the greatest of the great and great is His world. He puts every one to work.
If He cast an angry glance, He makes monarchs as grass blades.
Even though they may beg from door to door, they receive no alms.
Slok 1st Guru.
If a thief robs a house and gives the house plunder to his ancestors.
In the world next, the thing is recognised and the ancestors are made thieves.
The hands of the go-between are shorn off. Like this the Lord administers justice.
Nanak, in the next world, that alone is received, which one gives (to the needy) from his earnings and toil.
1st Guru.
As a woman has her recurring monthly menses,
so does falsehood dwell in the mouth of the false one and he is ever, ever distressed.
They who sit down after washing their body, are not called pure.
Pure are they, O Nanak, within whose mind, He, the Lord abides.
Pauri.
Saddled horses swift like wind, and belles adorned in every way, on them the mortal fix their mind.
They dwell in houses, pavilions and lofty mansions and make ostentation.
They do their mind-desired things but they know not God and so suffer defeat.
They eat by exercising their authority, and seeing their mansions, they forget death.
When old age comes, youth fails them.
Slok 1st Guru.
If the principle of impurity be admitted, then there is impurity every where.
In cow-dung and wood there are worms.
As many as are the grains of corn none is without life.
In the first place there is life in water, by which, all are make green.
How can impurity be warded off? If falls on our own kitchen.
Nanak, impurity is not removed like this. It is washed away by Divine Knowledge.
1st Guru.
The mind's impurity is avarice and the tongue's impurity falsehood.
The defilement of the eyes is to behold another's woman, another's wealth and beauty.
The impurity of the ears is to hear the calumny of others with ears.
Nanak, mortal's soul goes bound to the city of death.
1st Guru.
All impurity consists in doubt and attachment to duality.
Birth and death are subject to Lord's command and through His will mortal comes and goes.
Eating and drinking are pure, for the Lord has given sustenance to all.
Nanak, the Guru-wards, who know the Lord, to them impurity sticks not.
Pauri.
Magnify and praise the True Guru, in whom there are great greatness.
If the Lord, causes man to meet the Guru, then, beholds he the Guru's greatness.
When it pleases Him, then, He enshrines them in man's mind.
The Guru puts his hand on man's forehead, and by his order beats out wickdnesses, from within him.
When the spouse is pleased, the nine treasure are obtained.
Slok 1st Guru.
Firstly becoming clean himself, the Brahman comes and sits in the cleansed enclosure.
The pure viands, which no one has touched are placed before him.
Being purified thus, he takes his food and then, begins to read verses.
It is then thrown in a filthy place, Whose fault is this?
The corn is wholesome, the water is wholesome and the fire and salt are wholesome.
Then the fifth, clarified butter, is added, then the food becomes pure and sanctified.
Coming in contact with the sinful body the food becomes impure that is spat upon.
The mouth, which utters not the Name and without the Name, eats delicacies,
consider it like this, O Nanak, as if that mouth is spat upon.
1st Guru.
Within a woman, the man is conceived and from a woman he is born. With a woman he is betrothed and married.
With the woman man contracts friendship and with a woman the system of propagation keep on going.
When one's wife dies, another lady is sought for. It is through a woman that man restraints his passions.
Why call her bad, from whom are born the king.
From a woman, a woman is born, Without a woman, there, can be none.
Nanak, only the one True Lord, is without a woman.
The mouth which ever praises the Lord, is fortunate, rosy and beautiful.
Nanak, those faces shall be bright in the court of that true Lord.
Pauri.
All call Thee their own, O Lord, He, whose Thou art not, is picked up and thrown away.
Every one has to reap the fruit of his own actions and adjust his accounts.
Since, one is not to remain in this world; then why should he practise pride?
Call not any one bad, understand this by reading these words.
Argue not with a fool.
Slok 1st Guru.
Nanak, by speaking dryly, the soul and body become dry (evil).
He is called the most evil of the evil and the most evil is his reputation.
The sour-tongued persons is discarded in God's court and the evil one's face is spat upon.
The harsh man is called a fool and he receives shoe-beating as punishment.
1st Guru.
The persons false from within and honourable from without are abundant in this world.
Their filth departs not, even though they may bathe at sixty eight holy places.
They who have silk within and rags without are good in this world.
They conceive love for God and contemplate beholding Him.
In Lord's love they laugh, in Lord's love they weep and keep silent too.
They care not for anything except their True spouse.
Sitting at the road, leading to Lord's door, they beg for food, and when He gives, they eat then.
The Lord's court is one and but one is Himself Pen, and we and you meet there.
In God's court the accounts are examined. Nanak, the sinners are crushed like the oil-seeds in an oil-press.
Pauri.
Thou Thyself didst create the world and Thou of Thyself infused power therein.
Thou seest Thine creation as also losing and winning dice (good and bad men) this earth.
Whosoever has come, he shall depart and all shall take their turn.
Why should we forget in our heart that Lord. who owns ore soul and life?
With our own hands let us ourselves arrange our own affairs.
Slok 2nd Guru.
What sort of love is this, which clings to another?
Nanak he alone is called a lover, who, ever remains absorbed in God.
He who feels happy only when his Lord blesses him with weal, but becomes sad in adversity,
call him thou not a lover for, he trades with the Lord for his good.
2nd Guru.
He, who both offers salutation and says 'no' to his Master, has gone wrong since the very beginning.
Both to his actions are false. He obtains no place in God's court.
Pauri.
Ever meditate on that Lord, by serving whom solace is attained.
Why doest thou do such evil deeds, which thou hast to suffer for?
Do no evil at all and look ahead with far-sightedness.
So, throw thou the dice, that thou mayest not lose with the Lord.
Render thou such service, as may bring thee some profit.
Slok 2nd Guru.
If a servant performs service and is also vain, disputations and talks,
he earns not the pleasure of his Master.
If he effaces his self-conceit and performs service, he obtains some honour, then.
Nanak, if man meets Him with whom he is attached, his attachment becomes acceptable.
2nd Guru.
Whatever is in the mind, that comes forth. The mere words of mouth are of no use.
The mortal sows poison and demands nectar, See, what sort of justice this is.
2nd Guru.
Friendship with a fool, never comes right.
As he knows, so does he act. Let any one see and ascertain it.
A thing can put into a vessel only if another, that is inside be first removed.
With the Lord, command succeeds not. It behooves to address supplication to Him.
By practising falsehood, falsehood is attained. Nanak, through Lord's praise one blossoms forth.
2nd Guru.
Friendship with a blockhead (fool) and love with a worldly big man,
are like the lines drawn in water, of which there is no trace or mark.
2nd Guru.
If an ignorant man does some work, he cannot set it aright.
Even if he does some rare thing right, he does another wrong.
Pauri.
If a servant engaged in service, walks according to his Master's will,
his honour is magnified, and he receives double the wages.
If he pleads equality with his Master then, he incurs his displeasure.
He not only his fat salary but also receives shoe beating on his very face.
Whose gifts, we eat, Him let us say "All hail".
Nanak, command succeeds not with the Lord. It is only the imploration which works.
Slok 2nd Guru.
What sort of gift is this, which we receive only by our own asking?
Nanak, that is the wonderful gift, which is received, form the Lord when He is mightily pleased.
2nd Guru.
what kind of service is this, by which the fear of the Master departs not?
Nanak, he alone is called the servant, who merge with his Master.
Pauri.
Nanak, God's limit of this end or of that, is not known. That or that end he has not.
He of Himself creates and of Himself he, again destroys.
Some have chains around their necks and some ride on so many horses.
Himself the Lord acts and Himself He causes to act. With whom should I lodge a complaint?
Nanak, He who has made the creation, he then, takes care of it.
Slok 1st Guru.
The Lord himself has fashioned the vessels (the bodies) and Himself he fills them.
Into some is poured the milk (Good qualities) and some remain put on the oven.
Some lie down and sleep on wadded covers and watch over them.
Nanak, the Master bedecks those, on whom he casts him gracious glance.
2nd Guru.
The Lord Himself creates and Himself fashions the world and himself keeps it in place.
Having created the beings therein, He beholds their birth and death.
Whom should we address, O Nanak, when He, the Lord Himself is all in all.
Pauri.
The description of the greatness of the Great Lord cannot be given.
He is the Creator Omnipotent, Bounteous and he gives sustenance to all the beings.
The mortal does the work, which he has destined for him, from the beginning.
Nanak, except the One Lord, there is no other abiding place.
The Master does that, whatever is His will.
There is but one God. True is his name and creative His personality, Immortal in form. Unborn and self illumined. By Guru's grace. He is obtained.
Asa Measure. The hymns of the saints:
Reverend Kabir, Namdev and Ravidas.
Asa of sire venerable Kabir;
Falling at my Guru's feet, I supplication and ask him, why was the man created.
What deeds make man come and go? Tell and explain it to me.
O Divine Guru, show mercy unto me and put me on the right track by which my bonds of fear may be cut.
The pain of birth and death results from the deeds done and comfort comes when the soul is released from coming and going. Pause.
Man bursts (breaks) not the entanglements of mammon's noose and therefore seeks not shelter in the Profound Lord.
He realises not the dignity of self and salvation, and in this way his doubt departs not.
The soul is never born, though man thinks it is born, it is free from birth and death.
When man's idea of birth and death departs then, he, ever remains absorbed in Lord's love.
As, when pitcher breaks, the reflection in the water, blends with the object,
similarly, says Kabir, when through virtue doubt flees, then, the soul is absorbed in the Profound Lord.
Asa.
They wear loin-cloths three and a half yards long, and there fold sacred threads.
They have rosaries around their necks and glittering jugs in their hands.
They are not called the saints of God, but the cheats of Kanshi.
Such saints are not pleasing to me,
they devour trees including their stems. Pause.
They scrub their vessels and put them on fire and born the wood after washing.
Digging up the earth, they, make two fire-places and eat up the whole man.
Those sinners ever wander in evil deeds and call themselves touch me not supreme saints.
Ever and over they roam about in self-conceit and drown all their families.
The man is attached to that, with which the Lord has attached him, and he acts accordingly.
Says Kabir he who meets the True Guru, is not born again.
Asa.
My father (God) has comforted me.
He has given me a comfortable bed and has put Nectar into my mouth.
That Father how can I forget from my mind?
When I go to the world beyond, I shall not lose my game.
Dead is mammon, my mother, and I am very happy.
I wear not the patched coat nor do I feel the frost. Pause.
I am a sacrifice unto the Father who begot me.
he has put an end to my companionship with the five deadly sins.
I have slayed the five demons and trampled them under my feet.
In God's meditation my soul and body are drenched.
My Father is the great Lord of the world.
How shall I go to that Father?
When I met the True Guru, he showed me the way, then.
The Father of the universe is pleasing to my mind.
I am Thy son and Thou art my Father.
We both abide in one and the same place.
Says Kabir, God's slave knows but one God.
By Guru's grace I have come to know everything.
Asa.
In one vessel they put a cooked chicken and in another vessel they put water (wine).
The five Yogis sit all around and amidst sits the noseless, adorable queen.
The bell of the noseless mammon rings in both the worlds.
Some discerning persons has cut off thy nose. Pause.
Within all abides the noseless mammon who kills all and looks upon them.
Says she, I am the sister and sister's daughter of all, and I am the hand-maiden of him who marries me.
My Husband is the great discerner and he alone is called a saint.
He ever stands on my head and none else comes near me.
I have cut off her nose and shorn off her ears and having chopped and thrashed, I have expelled her.
Says Kabir, darling of the three worlds, she is an enemy of the saints.
Asa.
The Yogis, celibates penitents and anchorets repair to many places of pilgrimage.
The plucked-hair, jains, the shaved, the silent, the matted hair mendicants shall die in the end.
Wherefore meditate on the Lord's Name.
What can Death's Courier do unto him, whose tongue cherishes love for Lord's Name. Pause.
They who know Shashtras, the Vedas, astrology and grammars of good many languages.
They who know charms and incantations and all the meditates, ever they shall die at last;
Who enjoy kingdoms canopied thrones, good many a beautiful woman,
betel, camphor and highly fragrant sandal, thy too shall perish ultimately.
The Vedas, Hindus mythical books and religious treatises, I have all searched, but none can save the man.
Says Kabir, so meditate thou on the Lord, that thy comings and goings may end.
Asa.
An elephant is a rebeck-player, an ox a drummer and the crow plays the cymbals.
Putting on the skirt, the donkey dances and the he buffalo performs worship.
Lord the king has cooked the cakes of ice,
and some man of understanding has eaten them. Pause.
Sitting in his den, the lion prepares the betel leaves and the muskrat brings the betel nuts.
From house to house the mouse sings songs of joy and the tortoise blows a shell.
A sterile woman son goes to wed and golden canopy is spread.
he marries a beautiful and enticing girl, and a hare and a lion sing their eulogies.
Says Kabir, hear O ye saints, an ant has eaten up a mountain.
The tortoise says, "I need a burning coal, too and the gnat preaches Divine hymns".
Asa.
The body is a wallet which has seventy two chambers and the one, the Tenth gate.
In this world, he alone is the real Yogi who begs for the one Lord's Name, in the body earth, consisting of nine apertures or regions.
Such a Yogi obtains the nine treasures.
He lifts his soul from below to heaven. Pause.
He makes gnosis his patched coat and meditation his needle. Twisting the thread of God's word he puts it therein.
Making the five elements his deerskin, he walks in the way of His Guru.
Compassion he makes his shovel, his body the fire-material and kindles the fire of Divine vision.
His, love, he places within his mind and abides in the contemplative mood, the four ages through.
All Yoga is in the Name of the Master, to whom belong the body and soul.
Says Kabir God shows mercy, He gives man a true mark.
Asa.
Whence have come the Hindus and the Muslims and who has put them on these different paths?
Think and reflect in thy mind, O evil disputant! who obtains heaven and hell?
O Qazi! which is the book that thou hast read?
Such readers and students as thou art, have all been doomed and none has obtained the knowledge. Pause.
Because of the love of woman's circumcision is practised. I believe it not, O brother.
O if God wishes me to be a Muslim, the organ shall get shorn off by itself.
If man becomes a Musalman by circumcision, what is to be done to a woman?
As leaves him not the woman who is half man's body, therefore he remains a Hindu.
Give up thy books and remember the Lord, O fool, Thou practisest grave oppression.
Kabir has taken hold of the Lord's prop and the Muslims have utterly failed.
Asa.
As long as the oil and the wick are in the lamp, till then everything is visible.
When the oil is burnt, the wick goes of and forlorn becomes the mansion.
O mad man, then, none keeps thee even for a moment.
Remember thou, therefore the Name of that Lord. Pause.
Say, whose is the mother and whose the father, and which man has a wife?
When the pitcher (body) bursts none cares for thee. All say, Take him out take him out.
Sitting on the thresh hold, the mother weeps and the brothers take away the bier cot.
Spreading her tresses of hair, the wife bewails and the soul departs all alone.
Says Kabir, hear O ye saints regarding the terrible ocean.
This man suffers torture and death's myrmidon leaves him not, O Lord of the world. Couplet.
There is but one God. By Guru's grace he is obtained.
Asa by venerable Kabir. Chaupadas Ik-tukas.
Sanak and Sanand (Brahma's sons) found not Lord's limit.
Brahma wasted away his life by continually reading Vedas.
God's churn, churn thou O My brother.
Steadily churn, it that butter may not be lost. Pause.
Make thy body the churning-jar and churn therein with thy mind stick.
Into this churning-jar, amass the curd of God's Name.
The Lord's churning is to heartily meditate on Him.
By Guru's grace, man obtains the ambrosial stream.
Says Kabir, if the king casts a favourable glance,
man gains the yonder shore by clinging to the Lord's name.
Asa.
The wick has dried up and the oil has exhausted.
The drum sounds not the and the actor has lain down to sleep.
The fire is extinguished and the smoke issues not.
The One Lord is pervading all; there is no other's second. Pause.
The string has broken and the rebeck plays not.
By error the man has ruined his affair.
All preaching, ranting, arguing,
and intoning are forgotten, when man obtains understanding.
Says Kabir, those who slay their five demons (passions),
the supreme dignity is not far from him.
Asa.
As many as faults the son commits,
so many his mother bears not in her mind.
My pervading God, I am Thy child.
Why destroyed Thou not my demerits? Pause.
If the son, in great rage, runs away even then,
the mortal bears it not in her mind.
My mind has fallen into the whirlpool of anxiety.
Without the Lord's Name how can it ferry across?
Ever bless my body with pure understanding, O Lord.
In peace and poise Kabir utters the praise of God.
Asa.
My pilgrimage to Mecca is at the bank of Gomati river,
where abide the religious guides with yellow robe.
Bravo! Bravo! how nicely does he sing,
God's Name is pleasing to my mind. Pause.
Narad sage and Saraswati goddess, perform Lord's service.
Near Him sits goddess Lakhshmi as His hand maiden.
The Lord's Name on my tongue, is the rosary on my neck,
with which I repeat a thousand Names of His and make obeisance unto Him.
Says Kabir, I sing Master's praise.
And instruct both the Hindus and Muslims.
Asa Venerable Kabir. Panchpade 9 Dutuke 5.
There is but one God. By true Guru's grace. He is attained.
Thou tearest off the leaves, O lady-gardener but in every leaf there is life.
The stone (idol) for which thou pluckest the leaves that stone is life-less.
In this thou art mistaken, O lady gardener.
The True Guru is the living Lord. Pause.
Brahms is in the leaves, Vishnu in the boughs and God Shiva in the flowers.
The three gods thou, obviously breakest, then whose service perfomest thou?
The sculptor carves the stone and fashions it into an idol, by placing his feet on its breast.
If this stone-god be true, then, is should eat up the sculptor.
The rice, pulse, semi liquid sweets pancakes and pudding.
The enjoyer (the priest) enjoys these and ashes are in the mouth of this idol.
The lady gardener is mistaken, the world is mistaken, but I am mistaken not.
Says Kabir showering His benediction, Lord God, the King, has preserved me.
Asa.
Twelve years pass away in childhood and the man performs not arduous service for another twenty year.
For thirty years more, he worships not God in the least and then repents, when he becomes old.
His life passes away saying, "This is mine and mine alone".
The tank of his arm's power if dried up. Pause.
With his hands he makes a fence round a dried up tank and puts a hedge round the reaped field.
When the death-thief comes he quickly carries off what the fool had preserved as his own.
The feet, Head and hands begin to tremble and the water flows copiously from the eyes.
The right words escape not from the tongue and then, O man, thou hopest to practise piety.
If the venerable God shows mercy, man imbibes love for Him and obtains the profit of the God's Name.
By Guru's grace he receives the wealth of God, which goes with him, when he, ultimately departs.
Says Kabir, listen, O ye saints, the man takes no other wealth with him.
When the Sovereign Lord's summons come, he departs leaving behind his wealth and palaces.
Asa.
To some the Lord has given satin and silk clothes and to some bedsteads, woven with cotton tapes.
Some have not even a rotten patched coat and some have a thatched hut.
Indulge not in envy and bickering, O my soul.
By constantly doing good deeds, these are obtained, O my mind. Pause.
The potter kneads the same clay and colours the vessels in various ways.
In some he sets peals and strings of pearls and to others he attached filth.
To the miser, God gave the wealth to preserve, but the blockhead calls it his own.
When death's mace falls on his head, in a moment every thing is settled.
God's slave is called the sublime saint, he obeys God's order and obtains peace.
Whatever pleases Him, he accepts as true and Lord's will he abides within his mind.
Says Kabir, listen O saints, false is to indulge in egoism.
Breaking the bird's cage, the death takes away the bird and the threads and yarns, are shorn.
Asa.
I am an humble slave of Thine, O Lord, Thy praise if pleasing unto my mind.
Supreme Lord, the primal Beings the Lord of the Poor ordains not oppression.
O Qazi, it behoves not to talk before Him. Pause.
By keeping fast, saying prayer and reading the Muslim creed (Kalma) thou cannot go to paradise.
The temple of Makka is hidden within one's mind, if one were to know it.
To administer justice, that is the prayer. The Knowledge of the Inscrutable Lord is the creed.
If by slaying the five desires thou spread the prayer mat, then shalt thou know the real religion.
Recognise thy Master, fear Him in thy heart and still thou thy ego and make it worthless.
As thou deemest thyself so deem thou others, and then alone shalt thou become a partner in heaven.
The clay is one, but it has assumed diverse forms. In them all I have recognised the one Lord.
Says Kabir, I have abandoned the paradise of your conception and attached my mind to the hell.
Asa.
From the city of the mind-sky not even a drop rains now. Where is the music, which was contained in it?
Transcendent Lord, the Supreme God and the master of wealth has taken away the great soul.
O Father, the soul, which used to speak and to dwell with the body,
whither has it gone, it used to dance in the mind and explain and preach. Pause.
Whither has gone the player who had made this mansion as his own?
No tale, word and understanding are produced as the Lord has drained off the entire power.
The ears, thy companions have gone deaf and the power of thy organs is exhausted.
Thine feet have failed, the hands are relaxed and from thy mouth no word, now issues forth.
All the five enemies and thieves (passions) which wandered according to their own will, have grown weary.
The mind elephant is tired the worn out is the tired and worn out is the heart, the wire-puller through whose power the body moved about.
The man is dead, the bounds of the ten gates are loosed and he has left all his friends and brothers.
Says Kabir, he who meditates on God, bursts his Bonds even while alive.
Asa Ik tuke 4.
None is more powerful then mammon, the she-serpent,
which deceived even the Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva.
Beating and smiting all round the she-snake is now seated in the pure water.
By Guru's grace, I have seen her who has bitten the three worlds. Pause.
O brother, why callest thou mammon, a she snake?
He who realises the True Lord, devours a she-snake?
No one else is more trifling than mammon.
When the she serpent if subdued what can the king of Death's couriers do?
This mammon is created by Him.
By herself what power or weakness can she have?
If she abides with man, then, his soul abides in body.
By Guru's grace, Kabir has easily swum across.
Asa.
What avails it to read Simritis to a dog?
What avails it to sing God's praise to a materialist?
Remain thou completely absorbed in the Lord God's Name.
Talk not of it to an infidel, even by mistake. Pause.
Why should one offer camphor to a crow?
Why feedest thou a viper on milk?
By meeting the society of saints, discrimination and understanding are attained.
That iron which touches the philosopher's stone, becomes gold.
The doggish mammon-worshipper does everything as the Lord causes him to do.
He does the deed, which is ordained for him from the very beginning.
Wert thou to take Nectar and irrigate Neem with it,
says Kabir; its natural quality shall not depart.
Asa.
The fortress like that of Ceylon and moat like the ocean around it;
about that Ravan's house, there is no news.
What shall I ask for? Nothing remains stable.
I see with my eyes that the world is passing away. Pause.
A lac of sons and a lac and quarter of grandsons;
in that Ravan's house, there was neither lamp nor wick.
The moon and the sun cooked his food.
The fire did wash his clothes.
By Guru's instruction, he who abides Lord's Name in his mind,
that man remains permanent and goes not anywhere.
Says Kabir, "Listen, O ye people",
Without the Name of Pervading God, one is emancipated not.
Asa.
First was born the son and afterwards the mother.
The Guru falls at the feet of his disciple.
Hear one wonderful thing, O my brethren.
I have seen a tiger grazing kine. Pause.
The fish of water gives birth on a tree.
I have seen a cat carrying away dog.
The branches are below and the roots above.
The trunk of that tree bears fruits and flowers.
Riding a horse, the buffalo goes out to graze it.
The ox is yet out and its bag has arrived home.
Says Kabir that he, who understands this hymn,
and utters the Lord's Name, comes to know everything.
Twenty-two Chaupades and Panchpades.
Asa Measure. Tipdas 8. Du-Tukas 7 and Ik tuka 1 of Venerable Kabir.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
He, the Lord has created thy body from semen and kept thee in the fire pit.
For ten months He kept thee in mother's belly, and again on birth mammon got attached to thee.
O man, attaching thyself to covetousness, why losest thou the gem like life of thine?
Thou sowed not the seed of good actions in the earth of Thy former births. Pause.
From an infant thou hast grown old. What was to happen, that has happened.
When Death's Minister comes and catches thee by the top-lock, why weepest thou then?
Thou hopest for longer life and death watches thine breaths.
The world is but a game, O Kabir so alertly throw the dice.
Asa.
My body I make the dyer vat and then dye my soul therein. The five elements I make my marriage- guests.
With Lord, the Sovereign, I take my marriage circumambulations and my soul is imbued with His love.
Sing, sing, O wedded-mates the marriage songs.
The Monarch Lord has come to my house as my Husband. Pause.
In my heart-lotus I have made the bridal pavilion and have uttered the Divine knowledge.
I have obtained sovereign God as my Bridegroom, so great is my fortune.
Demi-gods, men, quite sages and three hundred and thirty millions (Thirty-three crores) of deities have come in their air-devices to see the spectacle.
Says Kabir that the unique illustrious Lord has wedded me and taken me with Him.
Asa.
I am annoyed by my mother-in-law (mammon) and loved by my father-in-law (God) and I dread the very Name of my husband's elder brother (death).
O my mates and companions, my husband's sister (misunderstanding) has seized me and I burn by separation from my husband's younger brother (divine knowledge).
My mind has gone insane, since I have forgotten the Omnipresent Lord. How can I lead a virtuous way of life?
My Spouse lies on my mind's couch, but I see Him not with my eyes. Whom should I tell this woe of mine? Pause.
My step father (egotism) fights with me and my mother (desire) is ever intoxicated.
When I remained with my elder brother (meditation), then I was dear to my Spouse.
Says Kabir, the five evil passions quarrel with me and in quarrel my life is wasted away.
The false mammon has bound the whole world, but I have obtained peace by repeating the Lord's Name.
Asa.
In my house is thread and I daily stretch the warp, while only one thread is on thy neck (O Brahman.)
Thou readest Vedas and sacred hymns, while I have enshrined the World-Lord in my mind.
On my tongue, in mine eyes and within my mind abides the Lord Master, the world sustainer.
Then thou art interrogated at Death's door, O mad Mukand (a Brahman), what shall thou then say? Pause.
I am a cow and thou the herdsman Lord of the earth and thou art my saviour all the births through.
Thou hast never taken me across to graze. What sort of my Master thou art?
Thou art a Brahman and I am a weaver of Banaras. Fathom thou my Divine comprehension.
Thou beggest from the emperors and Kings and my attention is fixed on the Lord.
Asa.
The worldly life is such that it is like a dream. The life is equal to a dream.
Believing it to be true I have grasped it, and have abandoned the supreme treasure.
O Father, I have enshrined love and affection for mammon,
which has snatched away from me the gem of Divine Knowledge. Pause.
Though the moth sees with its eyes, yet it becomes entangled. The Insect beholds not the fire.
Attached to gold and woman, the fool thinks not of Death's noose.
Reflect thou and abandon sin, He, the Lord, is a ship to ferry thee across.
Says Kabir, such is God, the life of the world, that there is not another equal to Him.
Asa.
Of course, I have assumed many forms, but now I shall not assume another forms again.
The strings and the wires of the musical instrument are all worn out and I am now in the power of Lord's Name.
Now I know not how to dance (at the beck and call of mammon).
My mind now beats not the drum. Pause.
I have taken and burnt off lust, wrath and mammon, and the pitcher of my desire has burst.
The gown of sensuous pleasure is worn out and all my doubts are dispelled.
All the beings I deem alike and my wranglings and strifes have ended.
Say Kabir, when the Lord became merciful, I obtained Him, the Perfect Master.
Asa.
Thou Keepest fast to pleases God and slayeth beings for thy relish.
Thou seest thy own interest and seest not the interest of others. What for pratest though?
O Qazi thy one Lord is within thee, but thou beholdest Him not by thought and reflection.
Mad after religion, thou takest no notice of Him, wherefore thy life is of no account. Pause.
Thy Muslim book tells thee that God is true, and that He is neither male or female.
Thou gainest nothing by reading and reflecting, O mad man, if thou obtainest not understanding in thy mind.
The Lord concealed in every heart. Reflect thou in this in thy mind.
The same Lord is within both Hindus and Muslims and this proclaims Kabir loudly.
Asa. Tipada. Ik-Tuka.
I have decorated myself for meeting my Spouse.
But God, the Life of the world and the Lord of the universe has met me not.
God is my Husband and I am God's bride.
The Lord is great and I am infinitesimally small. Pause.
The bride and the Groom abide together.
They are on one couch but their union is difficult.
Blessed is the bride who is pleasing to her Spouse.
Says Kabir, she is not born, again.
Asa Reverend Kabir. Dupade.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
When the diamond Lord pierces the diamond soul, the wind-like fickle mind is easily absorbed in Him.
This diamond God fills all with His light. From the True Guru's instruction, I have obtained this understanding.
God's discourse is an endless description.
On becoming a swan, man recognises God, the gem. Pause.
Says Kabir, I have seen such a diamond as is contained in the world.
The hidden jewel became manifest, when the profound Guru showed it to me.
Asa.
My first wife (past understanding) was ugly of low caste and bad character and She was evil at my home and at her parents.
My present bride (Guru inclined understanding) is beautiful, wise and of sublime merits and I have naturally taken her to my heart.
It turned out well, that my first wedded wife has died.
May she, whom I have now taken live through all the ages. Pause.
Says Kabir, when the younger bride came the elder one lost her Spouse.
The younger bride is with me now and the elder one has taken another husband.
Asa.
Kabir's mother says, 'Our bride's Name was Dhani, meaning woman of wealth,
but they have given her the Name of Ramjania, meaning Lord's attendant.
These shaven fellows have ruined my house.
They have set my son uttering the Lord's Name. Pause
Says Kabir, "Listen, O my mother",
These shaven heads have done away with my low caste.
Asa.
Stay, stay, O bride, veil not thy face.
At the last moment this shall not fetch thee even half a shell. Pause.
The one before thee used to veil her face.
Follow thou not in her foot-step.
The only merit of veiling the face is this that,
for five or ten days people say, "a good bride has come".
Then alone shall thy veil be true,
if thou jump, dance and sing God's praise.
Says Kabir, then alone can the bride win,
if she passes her life singing God's praise.
Asa.
To be cut with the saw is better than that thou turnest thy back on me.
Take me to thy bosom and hear my entreaty.
I am a sacrifice unto thee. Turn thy face towards me, O my beloved.
Why doest thou kill me by turning thy back on me? Pause
Even if thou cut my body, I shall not turn away my limb from thee.
Even though my body falls, I shall not break my love with thee, even then.
Between me and thee, there is not another.
Thou art the same Spouse and I the same wife.
Says Kabir, hear O Loi, my wife.
Now, no reliance can be pleased in thee.
Asa.
None knows the secret of God, the weaver,
He has stretched the wrap of the whole world. Pause.
When thou shalt hear the Vedas and Puranas,
then shalt thou know that the whole world is a small woven warp of His.
The earth and sky the Lord has made His loom.
Therein He has moved the Two bobbins of the moon and the sun.
Joining my feet I have done one thing, that is with that wearer my mind is pleased.
Kabir weaver has understood his own house and recognised the Lord in his heart.
Says Kabir, when my body work-shop breaks,
the weaver Lord blends my thread with His own thread.
Asa.
With filth within, if one bathes at the shrines one goes not to heaven.
Nothing is gained by pleasing the people t as the Lord is not a simpleton.
Worship only the one Lord God.
The True ablution is the service of the Guru. Pause.
If salvation be obtained by bathing in water, then the frog ever, ever bathes in water.
As is the frog, so is that man, and he enters the existences, again and again.
If a hard hearted sinner dies in Kanshi, he cannot escape hell.
If God's saint dies in Maghar then he saves all his kindreds.
Where there is neither day or night, nor Vedas, nor Sahshtras, there abides the Formless Lord.
Says, Kabir, meditate on Him, O ye the mad men of the world.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Asa Measure. Hymns by Reverend Nam Dev.
The one Lord is in many manifestations and wherever I look, there is He pervading and filling all.
Fascinating is the marvellous picture of mammon and only a few understand this.
Everything is the Lord everything is the Lord. There is nothing but God, the world -sustainer.
As one thread holds hundreds and thousands of beads, so is that Lord in warp and woof. Pause
The water waves, foam and bubbles are not distinct from water.
This world is the play of the transcendent Lord and on reflection man finds it not different from Him.
False doubts and dream objects, man deems as true valuables.
The Guru instructed me to entertain the desire to do good deeds and my awakened mind accepted it.
Says Namdev see thou the creation of God and reflect on it in thy mind.
In every heart and within all is but one Lord, the Enemy of pride.
Asa.
Bringing a pitcher, I fill it with water, to bathe the Lord.
Forty-two lacs of beings are in water. How can I bathe the Pervading Lord therein O brother.
Wherever, I go, there the Lord is contained.
Amidst supreme bliss, He ever sports. Pause.
I bring flowers and weave a garland to worship the Lord.
The humming bumble-bee has first sucked the fragrance. How can I worship God, O brother?
I fetch milk and cook it to make a pudding, consisting of milk, rice and sugar to feed the Lord.
The calf has first defiled the milk. How should I adore the Pervading God with it?
Here is the Lord, there is the Lord. Without the Lord there is no world, whatsoever.
Supplicates Namdev: Thou, O Lord, art fully-contained in all the places and inter-spaces.
Asa.
My mind is the yard-stick and my tongue the scissors.
I measure and measure and cut off death's noose.
What have I to do with caste? What have I do with lineage?
The Lord's Name, I meditate upon day and night. Pause.
I dye myself in the Lord's colour and sew what ought to be sewed.
Without the Lord's Name I cannot live even for a moment.
I perform worship and sing God's praises.
During the eight watches of the day, I meditate on my Master.
My needle is of gold and my thread of silver.
Nama's mind is attached to God.
Asa.
Snake casts off its slough, but casts not off its poison.
Thou art like a heron, that fixes its attention on fish in water.
What for performest thou meditation and recitation,
when thine own mind is not immaculate. Pause.
The person who lives only on the tiger's food (plunder and cruelty),
is called as the God of cheats.
Nam Dev's Lord has settled the strife.
Lord's elixir drink thou, O deceitful one.
Asa.
He, who sees the Supreme Lord, likes not other desires.
He thinks of Lord's devotional service and keeps his mind free from care.
O my soul, how shalt thou cross over the world-ocean, filled with the water of vice?
Beholding the false worldly valuables thou has gone astray, O my mind. Pause.
Thou hast given me birth in a calico-printer's house (O Lord), but I have attained the Guru's instruction.
By saints' grace, Nam Dev has met his Lord.
Asa Measure. Hymns of Venerable Ravi Das.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
The deer, the fish, the humming black-wasp, the moth and the elephant are destroyed each for one defect.
He in whom are the five incurable vices what hope is there for him?
O Lord of mammon, man is in love with spiritual ignorance.
His lamp of discrimination has grown dim. Pause
The creeping beings are thought-less existences (lives) and can discriminate not between good and evil.
Human birth is very difficult to obtain, yet there-in, man associates with the low.
The men and lower animals, wherever they are born subject to their past actions.
Death's unfailing noose, shall cling to them, which can by no means be warded off.
O slave Ravidas dispel thy sorrow and doubt and deem Guru's gnosis the penance of penances.
O thou the Destroyer of Thine devotees fear, make me supremely blissful in the end.
Asa.
Thine saints are Thy body, and their association is my life.
By the True Guru's given gnosis, I deem the saints as gods of gods.
The society of saints the relish of saints converse,
and the love of saints Grant unto me, O Lord of the gods. Pause.
Saints character, the way of life of the Saints and the service of the servant of the saints I ask for.
I pray for one thing more, the desire -fulfiller gem of Thine devotion.
Show me not the wicked and the sinner.
Ravidas says, he alone is wise who knows that,
between the saints and the Infinite Lord there is no difference.
Asa.
Thou art sandal and I am the poor castor -plant, dwelling close to thee.
From a mean tree I have become sublime and Thine fragrance, exquisite fragrance, now, abides in me.
O Lord of wealth, I have sought the protection of Thine saints congregation.
I am meritless and Thou art beneficent. Pause.
Thou art the white and yellow silk-thread and I am like a poor worm.
O Lord, one should continue to associate with saints guild, like the bee with its honey.
My caste is low, my lineage (pedigree) is low and low is my birth.
I have not performed the service of the Sovereign Lord. Says Ravidas the cobbler.
Asa.
What does it matter, if my body is cut into many pieces?
If I lose Thy love, O Lord then alone Thy slave feels fear.
Thine lotus feet are the home of my soul.
Drinking the Name Nectar, I have obtained, I have obtained the Lord's wealth. Pause.
Prosperity, adversity, property and wealth are but the delusions.
In them Thy servant, O Lord is absorbed not.
Thy slave is bound with the rope of Thy love.
Says Ravidas, what advantage is it to escape therefrom?
Asa.
God, God, God, God, God, God, God.
by meditating on God, the saints and sinners swim across. Pause.
By God's Name, Kabir became renowned.
The account papers of his past births were torn up.
As a token of devotion, Nam Dev made the Master drink milk.
Therefore he suffered not the pain of being born, again in the world.
Slave Ravidas is imbued with Lord's love.
By Guru's grace, like this he shall not go to hell.
The puppet of clay, how does it dance?
He beholds, belholds, hear speaks and runs about. Pause.
When he acquires something, he is inflated with ego, then.
When his wealth is gone, then he beings to bewail.
In thought, word and deed he is attached to the sweet and saltish savours.
When he dies, he goes and is contained elsewhere.
Says Ravidas, the world is a play my brethren.
I have contracted affection with the Lord, the prime-player.
Asa Measure. Hymns of Reverend Saint Dhanna.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
In wandering about, many births have passed but the body mind and wealth remain not steady.
Attached to and stained with the poison of greed and lust, mortal has forgotten from his mind Lord, the jewel. Pause.
The fruit of sin is sweet to the demented soul and it realises not the Lord's sublime meditation.
Turning away from virtue, his love for other kinds of sin increases and he again weaves the web of birth and death.
He knows not the way to the Lord who abides in the mind and burning in the trap of worldly love, he falls into death's noose.
Amassing the fruits of sins, man so fills his heart with them that in his mind he forgets the Lord, the Supreme Being.
When the Guru Gives the wealth of the entry into Divine Knowledge enjoying Lord's meditation the man becomes one with him.
By embracing the Lord's love-worship, I have realised the mental peace and thus being sated satiated I have become emancipated.
'He, within whom is diffused and contained the Divine Light recognises the Undeceivable Lord.
Dhanna has obtained the world sustainer Lord as his wealth, and meeting the saintly persons, he is merged into Him.
5th Guru.
In the Lord the Lord the Lord of the world was Nam Dev's soul absorbed.
A calico-printer, worth half a shell became worth-lakhs. Pause.
Abandoning weaving and stretching thread Kabir enshrined love for Lord's feet.
A weaver of low family, he became an ocean of excellences.
Ravidas who daily used to carry dead cattle, he abandoned the worldly affairs.
He became renowned in the company of saints and obtained a sight of God.
Sain barber, the village drudge, became known in every house.
The supreme Lord dwelt in his mind and he was counted among the saints.
Hearing in this way the Jat applied himself to Lord's meditation.
God, the Lord of the world, met him in person and Dhanna became supremely fortunate.
O my soul, why rememberest thou not the merciful Lord, the belly cord-weaver? recognise thou not any other.
Though thou mayest run through the universe and the continents that alone happens what the Creator does. Pause.
He built the body having ten gates in the water of the mother's womb.
He gives it sustenance and preserves it in fire, such is my Lord.
The she-tortoise is in water and her young ones are outside the water. They are neither protected by mother's wings nor fed upon her milk.
The Omnipresent, embodiment of supreme bliss and fascinating Lord nourishes them. Understand and see this in thy mind.
The worm lives hidden in a stone, and for him there is no way of escape.
Says Dhanna, the Lord fills him Fear not, O my soul.
Asa Hymns of Venerable. Sheik Farid.
There is but One God By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
They alone who have heart felt love for the Lord are the true persons.
They who have one thing in their heart and another in their mouth, are accounted false.
They who are imbued with Lord's love, remain delighted with His sight.
They who forget God's Name become a burden on the earth. Pause.
They, whom the Lord attaches to his skirt are the real beggars at His gate.
Blest are the mother who bore them and profitable is their advent in this world.
O my Cherisher, Thou art illimitable, Inaccessible and Infinite.
They, who recognise the True Lord, their feet, I kiss.
I see Thy protection, O God and Thou art my forgiving Lord.
Bless Thou Sheikh Farid with the bounty of Thine meditation, O my Lord.
Asa.
Says Sheikh Farid O my dear friend, attach thyself to the Adorable Lord.
This body shall become dust and its home shall be the unhonoured grave.
Just today the Lord can be met, O Sheikh Farid, if thou restrain thine swallows of desires which burn thy mind. Pause.
If I had realised that I shall die and not return again,
I would not have ruined myself by clinging to the false world.
Tell the truth on solemn affirmation and utter not falsehood.
The disciple ought to travel by the route, which the Guru points out.
Seeing the handsome youths ferrying across the heart of the beauteous lady take courage.
They who turn to the side of the glitter of gold are mowed down with a saw.
O Sheikh, no one's life remains permanent in this world.
The seat, whereon we sit now, good many did sit on it and have departed.
As swallows appear in the month of Katik forest fires in Chet and lightning in Sawan,
as brides arms adorn her groom's neck in winter,
So do the transitory human bodies pass away. Reflect thou on this in thy mind.
The mortal takes six months to form and one trice to break-up.
Farid:- The earth asks the sky "where have the boatmen gone away?"
Some are burnt and some are inside the graves and their souls are suffering reproaches.
There is but one God. True is His Name and creative His personality. He is without fear, without enmity, immortal in form, unborn and self-illumined. He is attained by Guru's grace.
Gujri Measure. 1st Guru. Chaupade.
If I make Thy Name the sandal wood and my mind stone,
if good deeds be mixed therewith as saffron, then alone shall the True adoration be performed in the heart.
Perform His service by meditating on God's Name, for without the Name there is no worship. Pause.
If man were to wash his heart as the stone god is washed from without,
his filth shall be removed his soul shall be cleansed and he shall depart to deliverance.
The beasts have merits as they eat grass and give milk.
Without the name accursed is man's life and the acts he performs.
The Lord is near. Deem Him not distant. He, ever, cares for and remembers us.
Says Nanak, what he gives, that we eat and He alone is the True Lord.
Gujri. 1st Guru.
Brahma was born of the lotus of Vishnu's navel and attuning their throat, people read the Vedas their mouth.
Lord's limit, he could not see and he remained in the darkness of coming and going.
Why should I forget my Beloved who is the support of my very life?
Whose worship perform the perfect persons. Whom serve the silent sages through the Guru's instruction. Pause.
Whose lamps are the sun and the moon. The one light of Lord, the Enemy of pride, fills the three worlds.
He who becomes Guru-ward remains pure day and night but the self-ward is enveloped by the darkness of night.
The adepts in their trance ever contest among themselves but what can they see with their two eyes?
He, in whose heart is the Divine light, is awakened by the Name's melody and the True Guru settles his strifes.
O Lord of deities and men, Infinite and Unborn, Thy true palace is unrivalled.
O life of the world, bestow peace unto Nanak and save him by Thine gracious glance.
Gujri Measure. 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Accursed is such a life, wherein God's love is not obtained,
and accursed is the occupation in which God is forgotten and man becomes attached to duality.
O my soul, so serve the True Guru, by serving whom the Lord's love may be produced and all other be forgotten.
Thus the soul shall remain attached with God, there shall be no fear of old age and the man shall attain the immortal status. Pause.
See, as is the service performed so is a Divine peace, which springs from the Lord's love.
With self-effort, when I stilled my self-conceit, then my mind became pure and my light got blended with the Divine light.
Without Good fortune, such a True Guru cannot be obtained, however much all may long for him.
If the screen of falsehood is removed from within then an ever-lasting peace is obtained.
Nanak, what service can the servant perform for such a True Guru? He should lay down his very life for the Guru.
If the man attends to the True Guru's will, then the True Guru, himself shows him kindness.
Gujri, 3rd Guru.
Perform thou the service of God and perform no other service.
By God's service thou shalt obtain the fruits thy heart desires and by serving another thy life shall pass away in vain.
The Lord is my love, the Lord is my way of life and the Lord is my discourse and narrative.
By Guru's grace my mind is saturated with Lord's love and that is what constitutes my service. Pause.
God is my Simritis, God is my Shashtras, God is my kinsman and God is my brother.
I feel hunger for the Lord. With Lord's Name my soul is satiated and the Lord is my relation, who shall be my Helper at the last moment.
Without the Lord, other capital is false. It goes not with the mortal when he departs.
God is my wealth, which shall abide with me and whither-so-ever I go, thither will it go.
He who is attached to falsehood is false and false are the deeds which he does.
Says Nanak, everything happens according to God's will and the mortal has no say in it.
Gujri, 3rd Guru.
In this age, difficult to obtain is the Lord's Name. It is obtained through the Guru.
Without the Name, one is emancipated not. Let any one see it by making other efforts.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru. Ever a sacrifice to him, am I.
By meeting the True Guru, God abides within man's mind and he then automatically remains absorbed in Him. Pause.
When the Lord inspires His fear in man the Lord's love springs up in his mind.
Through the world-renunciation, the Lord is obtained and the mortal remains blended with the Lord.
He alone is emancipated who conquers his mind and mammon clings not to him, again.
He abides in the Tenth Gate and obtains the knowledge of the three worlds.
By Guru Nanak's grace, Lahna became the Guru. Have a like at his wonderous will.
This affair was accomplished by the Creator and Lahna's light merged into the Nanak's Divine light.
Gujri, 3rd Guru.
All the men utter God's name, but by such utterance man becomes not one with the Lord.
If by Guru's grace, the Lord abides in the mind then alone does any one gather fruit.
He, who enshrines love for the Lord in his mind,
never forgets God, but ever repeats God's Name with his heart and soul. Pause.
They within whose mind abides deception and who are outwardly called saints,
their desires are never stilled and they depart grieving in the end.
Though man may strenuously bathe at many places of pilgrimage even then his mind's ego never departs.
The man whose duality departs not on him Righteous judge inflicts punishment.
The man on whom is God's grace obtains Him A few understand the Lord through the Guru.
Nanak if man slays his ego from within then does he meet the Lord.
Gujri, 3rd Guru.
The man whose self-conceit the Lord stills is at peace and is blessed with an ever stable intellect.
Immaculate is the person who by Guru's instruction, understands God and fixes his mind with His feet.
O my unmindful soul remember thou the Lord and thou shall obtain the fruit that thou desirest.
By Guru's grace thou shalt obtain God's elixir by continually drinking which thou shalt have eternal peace. Pause.
When man meets the True Guru, he then becomes a philosopher's stone, and when he becomes such, the Lord then makes mortals worship him.
He who adores him, attains the reward and instructing others he reveals to them the truth.
Without becoming the philosopher's stone man is not worthy of worship but without instructing his own mind he instructs others.
The ignorant blind man calls himself the Guru but whom can he show the way?
Nanak sans His mercy nothing can be obtained and he on whom He looks with grace, finds Him.
By Guru's grace, God grants greatness and disseminates His Name.
Gujri, 3rd Guru. Panchpade.
Gnosis is neither gained at Banaras nor is the gnosis lost at Banaras.
By meeting the True Guru, wisdom is produced and then this man obtains understanding.
Hear thou God's discourse, O man and enshrine His Name within thy mind.
If this Divine Knowledge of thine remains permanent then shall the doubt depart from within. Pause.
Enshrine thou the God's Feet, in thy mind, and thine sins will be blotted out.
If thou subdue thy mind of five elements then shalt thou have an abode at the `True Shrine'.
This mind of an apostate is stupid and it obtains not understanding.
The stupid soul knows not God's Name and departs repenting at the end.
In this mind are Banaras all the shrines and Simirtis and this the True Guru has explained.
The sixty-eight holy places remain with him, in whose heart the Lord is contained.
Nanak, on meeting the True Guru God's will is known, and the one Lord comes to abide in man's mind.
They who please Thee, O True Lord are all true and they remain absorbed in Thee.
Gujri 3rd Guru.
The name alone is the treasure, O scholar Listen thou to such true instruction.
Whatever thou readest through duality by such reading and reflecting thou ever comest to grief.
Cling thou to God's feet. Through Guru's hymns thou shalt obtain sound understanding.
With thy tongue taste thou the God's elixir, then shalt thy soul be rendered pure. Pause.
By meeting the True Guru the mind is satiated and then desire and hunger harass not the man any more.
Having received the Name treasure none knocks at another's door.
Even though the perverse person talks and prattles, still he obtains not understanding.
By Guru's instruction whose mind is illumined he alone receives the Lord's Name.
Thou hearest Shashtras but realisest not, God, wherefore thou wanderest from door to door.
He who understands not his ownself and cherishes not love for the True Lord is a fool.
The True Lord has hook-winked the world and the man has no say therein.
Nanak, whatever pleases Him, that the Lord does according to His sweet will.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Gujri Measure 4th Guru. Chaupade.
O my great Sat-Guru, the save of the Lord and the True Person, I make a supplication before Thee.
I am an insect and a worm have sought thy shelter. Mercifully bestow on me the light of God's Name, O True Guru.
O my friend, the Great Guru, illumine me with the name of the Omnipresent Lord.
The Name revealed to me by Guru's instruction is the friend of my very life, and God's praise is my life's vocation. Pause.
The greatest good fortune is of the men of God, who have faith in the Lord Master and thirst for God.
By obtaining the Name of the Lord God, they are sated and meeting the society of saints their virtues shine forth.
They, who have not gained God, God's elixir and God's Name are unfortunate and are handed over to Death's myrmidon.
Fie on the life and accursed is the hope of living of those who have not sought the society and protection of the True Guru.
The men of God who have attained the society of the True Guru they have on their fore-head the pre-ordained writ.
Blest, blest is the saints congregation from where God's elixir is procured. By meeting God's slave, O Nanak, manifest becomes the Lord's Name.
Gujri, 4th Guru.
The Lord Master is dear, dear unto the soul of those who meet the society of saints. His Name fascinates the mind.
Repeat God's Name and remember the Lord of Universe. It is the Lord who gives gifts to all.
O my fellow brothers God, God the World Sustainer has bewitched my mind.
I hymn the praise of my Lord my Lord and my Lord by joining the holy society of the Guru, and thus Thy slave is beautified. Pause.
The worship of God is an ocean of peace and by Guru's instruction wealth prosperity and supernatural powers fall at the man's feet.
Lord's Name is the support of His serf and God's Name he utters and with God's Name he is adorned.
Evil-minded unfortunate and shallow-intellected are they who in their mind feel angry on hearing the Name.
Thou mayest place ambrosial juice before crow and raven but they are satiated only by eating ordure and dung with their mouth.
True Guru, the Truth -teller is a tank of Nectar by bathing where-in a crow (the perverse) becomes a swan (the Guru-ward).
Nanak, blessed, blessed great and very fortunate are they who wash away their hearts filth with God's Name, under Guru's instruction.
Gujri, 4th Guru.
Sublime are God's slaves and sublime is their speech. What they utter with their mouth is for other's good.
The persons who hear them with faith and devotion the Lord by showering His benediction saves them.
O Lord cause me to meet the dear saints of God.
The True Guru the Perfect Guru is dear to me as my life. He Has saved me, the sinner. Pause.
Very fortunate, very fortunate are the Guru-wards whose support is the Lord God's Name.
By Guru's instruction they obtain Lord God's nectar God's essence and the store house of devotion.
They who obtain not the vision of Sat-Guru the True Personage are unfortunate and are destroyed by Death's courier.
They are like curs, pigs and asses and are cast into the womb-existences and the Lord smites them as great murderers.
O kind to the poor, have mercy on Thy slave and save him by showering Thine benediction.
Serf Nanak has entered God's Sanctuary. If it pleases Thee O Lord God Thou shalt save Him.
Gujri, 4th Guru.
Be merciful and so mould my mind O Lord that I may night and day ever meditate on Thy Name.
God is all peace all merit and all wealth and by remembering Him all misery and hunger depart.
O my soul Lord God's Name is my companion and brother.
Under Guru's instruction I hymn the Lord's praise and it shall be my helper at the last moment and deliver me in God's court. Pause.
O Lord, the Knower of hearts, Thou Thyself art the Giver and Thou hast mercifully infused the longing for Thee in my mind.
The longing of my soul and body is for God and the Lord has fulfilled my longing since I have entered the sanctuary of the True Guru.
Human birth is obtained through beneficent acts and accursed, accursed it is without the Name it and goes in vain.
Without the Name one obtains pain as his sweet and saltish dish, insipid remains his mouth and his face is spit, spit upon.
The persons, who have entered the sanctuary of the Lord God, Lord God, them the Lord Master grants glory in His court.
Blest! Blest! and hail! the Lord says unto His slave. The Lord embraces him and blends him with Himself, O Serf Nanak.
Gujri. 4th Guru.
O Guru-wards my friends and mates, give me the gift of God's Name, which is the life of my very life.
I am the slave and serf of the Guru's Sikhs, who night and day meditate on the Omnipotent Lord God.
Within my heart and body, I have imbibed love for the feet of the Guru's Sikhs.
The Gursikhs, my brothers, you are the friends of my very life. Impart instruction unto me. United by you, I can meet the Lord. Pause.
When it pleases the Lord Master, He then, causes man to meet the Guru-wards, to whose soul the hymn of the great Satguru are sweet.
Very fortunate are the dear Sikhs of the Guru, who through the immaculate Lord, attain the status of salvation.
The Guru congregation of the Guru is dear to God, as to the Guru's mind Lord God's Name is sweet and pleasing.
He, who obtains not the society and association of the True Guru, him, the unfortunate sinful death's courier eats up.
If the kind Master Himself shows mercy, then assisted by the Supreme Guru, God Himself meets the mortal.
Attendant Nanak utters the begin hymns, the man is absorbed in God's Name.
Gujri. 4th Guru.
He, whoever, through the Divine True Guru, has obtained the Lord God, has made God dear unto me by his instruction.
My soul and body are all cooled and reverdured, and by the greatest good fortune I meditate on God's Name.
O my brother, let some one, who may implant God's Name in me, come and meets me.
My life, soul and body, all I give to my beloved, who narrates to me the Divine discourse of my Lord God. Pause.
From the Guru's instruction, I have obtained fortitude, faith and God. The God The Guru ever, keeps my mind attached to God's Name and God.
Ambrosial words are the hymns of the True Guru and the Nectar trickles into the mouth of him who utters them.
Immaculate is God's Name, to which filth attaches not. Through Guru's instruction, he repeats it with love.
The man, who has not received the wealth of God's Name, he is unfortunate and dies again and again.
God, the Bestower is the source of joy and the life of the world. He makes happy all the humans, who meditate on him.
Thou art the Giver, all the beings are Thine Says slave Nanak, Thou pardonest the pious persons and blendest them with Thyself.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Gujri. 4th Guru.
The mother, father and son are all made by God
and the relation ships of all are established by God.
All my strength is an nothing, O my brother.
The body and soul belong to God and the entire human frame is in His power. Pause.
Within His saintly persons God Himself infuses His devotion.
In family life they remain unattached.
When hearty love is established with God,
then whatever the man does that is pleasing to my Lord God.
I do the deed and work to which God has yoked me,
and I do that which He Himself makes me to do,
They, whose devotional service is pleasing to my Lord,
those persons fix their attention on the Lord's Name, O Nanak.
Gujri, 5th Guru. Chaupade.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Why doest thou O man think of enterprise when Reverend God is Himself engaged in thy care.
In the rocks and stone, He has created the beings and their sustenance He puts before them.
O my Venerable Lord of mammon he who mixes with the society of saints is saved.
By Guru's grace, he obtains the supreme status and the dry-wood blossoms forth. Pause.
Of mother, father, people, son and wife, no one is the support of another.
To every individual the Lord reaches sustenance why fearest thou O my soul.
The flamingoes come having flown over hundreds of miles while their young ones they leave behind.
Who feeds them and who enables them to peck? Hast thou ever thought of it in thy mind?
All the treasures and the eighteen supernatural powers the Lord holds on the palm of His Hand.
Slave Nanak is devoted dedicates and ever a sacrifice unto Thee, O Lord and to Thine vastness there is no limit or bound.
Gujri 5th Guru. Chaupade.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The men perform four rituals and six religious rites and in these the worldly men are engrossed.
From within they are not cleansed of the filth of ego and without the Guru they lose the game.
O my Lord, preserve me Thou mercifully.
Out of millions hardly any one is a servant of God; all others are but traders. Pause.
The Shashtras, Vedas and Simritis, I have all searched and they all say but one thing.
Without the Guru none obtains salvation. Observe and consider this in thy mind.
If a man has ablution and bath at sixty-eight places of pilgrimage and wanders over the whole earth,
and even if he performs various purifications day and night yet there would be all darkness without the True Guru.
Roaming and rambling, I have traversed the whole world but now I have arrived at God's door.
The Lord has obliterated my evil intellect and has enlightened my understanding and the Exalted Guru has saved slave Nanak.
Gujri, 5th Guru.
The wealth of God's Name is my adoration the wealth of God's Name is my penance and the wealth of God's Name is my food, which I relish.
Even for a moment in my mind I forget not the Lord God, whom I have obtained in the saints society.
My mother thy son has returned home with profit.
I possess God's wealth while walking, God's wealth while sitting and God's wealth while waking and sleeping. Pause.
God's wealth is my bath, God's wealth my gnosis and with God I fix my attention.
The wealth of God's Name is my raft, the wealth of God's Name is my boat and the Lord Master is the ship to ferry me across.
Through the Lord's wealth I have forgotten my anxiety and through Lord's wealth my doubt is removed.
From the wealth of Lord's Name, I have obtained the nine treasures and God the Real Substance has come to my hand.
You eat, and spend this wealth it exhausts not and here and here after it shall remain with you.
Loading the treasure the Guru has given it to Nanak and his mind is imbued with God's love.
Gujri 5th Guru.
By remembering whom all the sins are obtained and the ancestors are saved.
Ever meditate thou on that Lord God, who has end or limit.
O Son, this is thy mother's blessing.
May thou forget not Lord God, even for a moment, and ever remember the Lord of Universe. Pause.
May the True Guru, be king unto thee and may thou imbibe love for the society of saints.
May the preservation of thy honour by the Lord be thy raiment and singing of His praises thy daily food.
Ever quaff the Nectar of God's Name. May thou live long and may the meditation of God afford thee endless delight.
May joy and playful pleasure by thine; may thine hopes be realised and may thou never be worn be care.
let this mind of thine become the humming black-bee and God's Feet be the lotus flower.
Says slave Nanak, attach thy mind to them and happily bloom like the pied-cuckoo that rejoices on finding the rain drop.
Gujri 5th Guru.
The man decides to go to the west, but is led away to the East, by the Lord.
In am instant, the Lord is potent to establish and destroy and He holds in His Hand
man's designs Man's sagacity is of no avail.
Whatever my Lord deems to be right, that thing alone happen. Pause.
In his desire to acquire territory and to amass wealth, man breath escapes.
He leaves all his armies, assistants and servants and getting up departs to the city of death.
Deeming himself unique, man sticks to his mind's obstinacy and displays his ownself.
The food, which the blameless person have condemned and discarded, that he eats again and again.
He, unto whom the Lord spontaneously becomes merciful, that man's noose is cut off.
Says Nanak, the who meets the Perfect Guru, is approved whatever he is a family man or an anchoret.
Gujri 5th Guru.
The Persons, who contemplate on the Name treasure, their shackles are shattered.
Lust, wrath, poisonous wealth and egoism, they get rid of these diseases.
He, who joining the society of saints, sings God's praise,
has his mind purified by Guru's grace and obtains the joy of all the joys. Pause.
Whatever the Lord does, that he deems good such is the devotional service that he perform.
To deem friends and enemies all as the same, is an index of the way to meet God.
The Omnipresent Lord is filling all the places, so I go not anywhere else.
The Lord is an every heart and within all the places I am immersed in His love and dyed with His love.
When the world-Cherisher becomes king and compassionate, then, the man arrives at the abode of the Fearless One.
In an instant his troubles and strifes are ended and he becomes absorbed in the Lord, O Nanak.
Gujri 5th Guru.
To whomsoever a person I make a request, I find him full of his own troubles.
He, whosoever heartily contemplates on the Supreme Lord, He alone crosses the terrible world ocean.
None but the Divine Guru, can remove the distress and anguish.
Forsaking the Lord, if one becomes a servant of another, one's honour, dignity and reputation get decreased, therewith. Pause.
The worldly relations, relatives kinsmen are of no avail.
God's slave, though of lowly birth, is exalted. In his company, man obtains his heart desired fruits.
Man may obtains lacs and millions of viands, through foul means, in them his desire is not quenched.
Remember the Name, there appear millions of lights and then unseen Thing is manifested.
Roaming and rambling I have come to Thine door, O Sovereign God, the Destroyer of fear.
Serf Nanak desire the dust of saints feet, In it he finds his happiness.
Gujri 5th Guru. Panchpada.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace he is obtained.
My troubles have ended peace is enshrined in me and my fire of desire is quenched.
The Name treasure the True Guru has established in me which neither dies nor goes anywhere.
All other greeds of the greedy soul are false.
The Perfect Guru has given me the God's Name a thing which behaves my soul. Pause.
Surrounded by dear friends relations sons, brothers and wife the mortal playfully laughs.
But when the last moment arrives death seizes him, while they look on.
By continuously exercising oppression, man amasses wealth, gold silver and rupees.
But the hireling only gets the hire thereof and all else passes on to others.
Snatching perforce man collects horses elephants and chariots and makes them his own.
But when he sets out on the ling journey they travel not even a step with him.
The Name is my wealth, the Name my royal peace and the Name my family and helper.
The great Lord has given Nanak the wealth of the Name and that neither perishes nor comes and goes.
Gujri 5th Guru. Tipde
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
My troubles have ended, peace is enshrined in me and my fire of desire is quenched.
The Name treasure the True Guru has established in me, which neither dies nor goes anywhere.
Remembering the Lord, the bonds of mammon are loosed.
When my Lord becomes kind and compassionate, the man is emancipated, by meeting the society of saints. Pause.
Absorbed in the Nectar of love worship, he sings God's praises, the eight-watches through.
Both in weal and woe he remains unaffected and recognizes his Creator.
He, to whom he belongs, saves him and all the ways are opened unto him.
Says Nanak, the worth of the merciful mighty Master cannot be told.
Gujri 5th Guru. Dupade.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The Lord has purified the sinners and made them Him own, and all pay obeisance unto them.
No one asks their lineage and caste but others desire the dust of their feet.
O Lord, such is the glory of Thy Name.
Thou art called the Lord of all creation, and Thou givest singular backing to Thy servant. Pause.
In the guild of saints, Nanak has obtained understanding, and singing the praise of God is his mainstay.
Lord's serfs, Namdev, Trilochan, Kabir and Ravidas, the show maker, got emancipated.
Gujri 5th Guru.
There is no knower of the Lord, who can understand His plans.
Shiva, Brahma and all the silent sages, cannot comprehend Lord's condition.
The Lord's discourse is recondite and unfathomable.
God is heard to be one thing, but on comprehension, appears to be quit another type. He is beyond narration and exposition. Pause.
God Himself is the devotee and Himself his Master. He is imbued with Himself
Nanak, Lord is pervading all and he beholds Him everywhere.
Gujri 5th Guru.
The Lord's attendant knows no design, politics and cleverness.
Wheresoever an occasion arises, there he meditates on God.
The innate nature of the Lord is to love His devotees.
God cherishes His slave and caresses and fondles his as His own child. Pause.
The Lord's serf, hymns His praise as the worship, penance, self-mortification, and religious ceremonies.
Nanak has entered the Lord's sanctuary and is blessed with the fearless boon of beatitude.
Gujri 5th Guru.
My dear, remember thou the Lord, day and night make not a moment's delay.
With faith, perform thou the saints, service and put aside thy pride and obstinacy.
The fascinating sportive Lord is my very life and honour.
He abides with my soul and my mind is bewitched, as I behold His sports. Pause.
By remembering whom, my mind is in bliss and mind's rust is removed.
The greatness of meeting the Lord cannot be described. Nanak, it is infinitely beyond measure.
Gujri 5th Guru.
Men call themselves silent sages, Yogis and learned in Shashtras, but mammon has them all under her control.
The three gods (Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva) and three hundred and thirty millions of demigods their astonishment knew no bounds.
The powerful mammon continues to pervade amongst all.
Her secret if obtained by Guru's grace and None besides the Guru, knows it. Pause.
Ever conquering, she has subdued all the places and is clinging to the whole world.
O Nanak say, she surrenders to the saints and becoming his hand-maiden, clasps his feet.
Gujri 5th Guru.
I meditate on my Lord, and with both hands joined, make a supplication.
Giving His hand the Transcendent Lord has saved me and obliterated all my sins.
The Lord Himself has become merciful.
I have attained salvation and become an embodiment of bliss. Having become the Lord's child I have ferried across. Pause.
Meeting her Groom, the bride sings the songs of joy and applauds her Lord.
O Nanak, say I am a sacrifice unto the Guru, who has emancipated all.
Gujri 5th Guru.
The mother, father, brother, sons and kinsmen, their power is insignificant.
I have seen many pleasures of wealth, but none even slightly goes with the man.
My Lord, without Thee, none is mine.
I am a virtueless orphan, I am devoid of merit and I long for Thy support. Pause.
I am a sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice unto Thine feet and here and hereafter Thine is the only power.
In the saints, guild, Nanak, I have obtained Thy vision and my obligation to all others is annulled.
Gujri 5th Guru.
The Guru rids man of domestic entanglements, doubt and worldly love and male him bear love with the Lord.
The Guru implants only this instruction in the mind of the man that he should slowly and steadily sing God's praises.
O Friend, such a helper is the Saint Guru.
Meeting whom the bonds of mammon are loosened and the man never forgets the Lord. Pause.
Continuously doing various deeds in many ways I have thought this as the best.
That meeting the society of saints Nanak chants God's glories and thereby crosses the terrible world-ocean.
Gujri 5th Guru.
In an instant, the Lord establishes and destroys and His worth cannot be told.
In a moment he turns a King into a pauper and into the lowly He infuses splendour.
Ever meditate thou on thy God.
Why should one feel care and anxiety regarding the world, wherein one has to stay for a short while? Pause.
Thou art my prop, O my Perfect Satguru and my soul has fallen under thy protection.
I, Nanak, am a heedless, silly child. Extend to me thy hand and save me, O Guru.
Gujri 5th Guru.
Thou art the Beneficent Lord of all the beings and do Thou abide within my mind.
The heart, wherein Thine lotus feet are enshrined, there is no darkness and doubt.
My Lord Wherever I remember Thee, there I find Thee.
O Lord, the Cherisher of all, have mercy on me, that I may, ever praise Thee. Pause.
At every breath, I contemplate on Thine Name, O Lord, and long for Thee alone.
Nanak my mainstay is the Creator alone and I have renounced all other alien hopes.
Gujri 5th Guru.
Show mercy, my Lord and grant me Thine vision. Thine praises, I sing night and day.
With my head hair, I cleanse the feet of Thine slave and this is my life's object.
O Master, without Thee there is no other and second.
My God, in my mind I remember Thee, and with my tongue, I repeat Thy Name and with mine eyes I look towards Thee. Pause.
My Merciful Master, Thou art the Lord of all and with joined hands I make a supplication before Thee.
Nanak, Thy slave, meditates on Thy Name and is redeemed in the twinkling of an eye.
Gujri 5th Guru.
Overwhelming the realm of Brahma, the realm of Shiva and the realm of Indra, the mammon has come running here.
It cannot touch the society of saints and ever rubs and washes saints feet.
Now, I have come and entered the Guru's asylum.
This severe fire of mammon has badly burnt many and the True Guru has cautioned me regarding this. Pause.
It is clinging to the neck of adepts, strivers, super gods, celestial singers and men.
Nanak has the prop of the Creator Lord who has millions of such like hand-maidens.
Gujri 5th Guru.
By Lord's meditation, infamy is shelved, celebrity is gained in the world and a seat is obtained in Lord's court.
The fear of death is removed in an instant and the man goes to God's mansion with peace and pleasure.
Wherefore his service goes not in vain.
Throughout the eight-watches, contemplate thou on Thy Lord and, with thy soul and body, ever remember Him. Pause.
O Lord, the Destroyer of the sorrow of the poor, I have sought Thy shelter and I receives only that which Thou givest me.
With the love of Thine lotus feet, Nanak is imbued O God, preserve Thou the honour of Thy slave.
Gujri 5th Guru.
The All-sustaining Lord is Beneficent to the living beings and brimful are His treasures of devotion.
He is such, whose service becomes not unfruitful and in an instant, He emancipates the mortal.
My soul, remain thou merged with Lord, lotus feet.
Do thou beg of Him, whom all the beings worship. Pause.
Thine sanctuary Nanak has entered, O Creator. Thou, O Lord, art the support of my soul.
What can the world do unto him whom Thou, O Helper, protectest?
Gujri 5th Guru.
The Lord Himself has protected the honour of His slave.
The Guru has given the medicine of Lord God's Name and all his anguish has departed. Pause.
The Exalted Lord, in His mercy has preserved Har Gobind.
The calamity is over there is joy all round and we ever ponder over God's praise.
Such is the magnification greatness of the Perfect Guru that my Creator has assisted me.
Guru Nanak has laid and immovable foundation which grows higher with the passage of each day.
Gujri 5th Guru.
Thou hast never fixed thy attention on God.
Thy life has passed in doing worldly deeds and thou hast not chanted the Name of the Treasury of excellences. Pause.
Through deception thou amasseth money shell by shell and in many ways thou strivest for this.
By forgetting the Lord thou meetest with numberless calamities which cannot be counted and art eaten up by the chief fascinator the mammon.
Show mercy, O my Master and take not mine acts into account.
O Thou kind and compassionate Lord God Ocean of Peace Nanak has come under Thine protection.
Gujri 5th Guru.
With thy tongue repeat thou the Lord's Name.
Forsake thou other false occupations and ever meditate on the Fortunate Lord. Pause.
The Name alone is His Saints sustenance and in this world and the world beyond it is their prop.
The Guru has mercifully given me the Lord's gnosis and the discerning intellect.
The Omnipotent Lord is the cause of all causes and the Master of wealth and His refuge. I have sought.
Salvation and secular success abide in the dust of the saints feet, and Nanak has obtained Thus the Lord's treasure.
Gujri 5th Guru. Chaupade.
There is but One God. By True Guru's Grace He is obtained.
Forsake all thy clevernesses and seek the saint Guru's protection.
Sing thou the praises of thy Transcendent Master the Lord God.
O my soul, ponder over the Lord's lotus feet.
Thou shall obtain all peace and salvation and all thine woes shall depart. Pause.
Mother, father, sons, friends and brothers without Him none of them is thine.
Here and hereafter, He is with the soul as its companion and He the Lord is pervading everywhere.
Millions of devices designs and efforts are of no avail and serve no purpose.
In the sanctuary of the saints man becomes pure and obtains salvation by the Lord's Name.
The Inaccessible, compassionate and lofty Lord is potent to afford shelter to the saints.
He alone obtained the Lord, O Nanak, who is pre-ordained to meet Him.
Gujri 5th Guru.
Ever serve thy Guru and utter the praises of God the World-Lord.
By remembering the Lord God with every breath, mind's anxiety is removed.
O my soul, utter thou the Lord's Name.
Thou shall be blessed with peace, poise and pleasure and thou shall secure an immaculate seat. Pause.
In the society of saints redeem thou this soul of thine and think of the Lord, eight watches through.
Thine lust, wrath and ego shall be stilled and all thine wranglings shall end.
Immovable, Immortal and Inscrutable is the Lord, His protection seek thou, O man.
Meditate thou on His lotus feet in thy mind and contract love for the Lord alone.
The Transcendent Lord Master has shown mercy and Himself pardoned me.
God has given me His Name the treasure of all peace O Nanak then contemplate thou on Him, the Lord.
Gujri 5th Guru.
By Guru's grace, I have meditated on the Lord and my doubt is stilled.
Trouble ignorance and fear have left me and my misdeeds are at an end.
Within my mind is the love of the Lord God's Name.
Meeting the saints and under their instruction, I meditate on the Lord of the world in the most immaculate way. Pause.
Worship, penance and various rituals are contained in the fruitful meditation of the Name.
Showing mercy, the Lord has Himself protected me and all my affairs have been arranged.
O my Omnipotent Lord Master, may I never forget Thee with each and every breath.
How can one tongue describe Thine manifold virtues. They are innumerable and ever ineffable.
Thou art the Remover of the sorrow of the poor the Saviour, Merciful and the Grantor of compassion.
Immovable dignity is obtained by contemplating over the Name Nanak has firmly grasped the Lord God's protection.
Gujri 5th Guru.
Haughty intellect and exceedingly great love of mammon are the serious chronic diseases.
The Name of God which is potent to do everything is the medicine. The Guru has given me the Name.
With mind and body I yearn for the dust of feet of the saints.
Therewith the sins of millions of births are obliterated. O Lord of the Universe, fulfil my desire. Pause.
In the beginning end and middle man is dogged by the dreadful desire.
Uttering Lord's praise through the Guru's given gnosis death's noose is shattered.
They who are cheated by lust, wrath, avarice and worldly love ever suffer transmigration.
By Lord's devoted worship and Master's meditation wandering into births is ended.
Man's friends, sons, wife and well-wishers are being burnt with the three fevers.
Meeting the holy men of God man shakes off his miseries by repeating the Lord's Name.
Wandering in all the directions, the mortals cry out: "By no means, what-so-ever, are we saved"
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the Divine Feet of the Infinite Lord and is holding fast to their protection.
Gujri 5th Guru. Dupade.
There is but One God. By True Guru's Grace, He is obtained.
Meditate thou on the accredited personality of the Lord of wealth who is potent to do every work.
By uttering Lord's praise and hearing of His infinite greatness thou shalt not again suffer separation from Him.
My soul, worship thou the lotus feet of the Lord.
By Lord's meditation, strife and sorrow are ended and the noose of death's myrmidon is snapped. Pause.
Repeat thou the Name of God to consume thine enemies as there is absolutely no other method.
Show mercy, O my Lord and grant Nanak, the relish of Thy Name.
Gujri 5th Guru.
My Beneficent Lord, Thou art potent to afford protection, the Destroyer of pain and the King of happiness (comforts).
By hymning the pure praises of the Lord the woes depart and fear and doubt are effaced.
O the World-Supporter, without Thee, I have no other place.
O the Transcendent Lord Master, show mercy unto me that I may utter Thine Name. Pause.
Serving the True Guru, I am attached to God's Feet and by the great good destiny I have embraced love for Him.
In the saints' guild, the heart lotus blossoms and the man is rid of the evil understanding and intellect.
He, who sings God's praise all the day long and remembers the Lord Who is kind to the poor,
saves himself and redeems all his associates and all his bonds are loosened.
Of Thine feet, I have the support O Lord Master. Like wrap and woof Thou art with me O Lord.
Nanak has entered Thy asylum O Master and giving His hand God has protected Him.
Gujri Ashtpadis. 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is attained.
In the body hamlet dwell the five thieves and though stopped they still go out stealing.
He who keeps safe his capital from three modes and ten passions obtains salvation and emancipation, O Nanak.
Meditate thou on the Omnipresent Lord the wearer of the garland of jungles.
To enshrine the Lord within the mind is to tell the beads of rosary. Pause.
Whose roots shoot upwards and branches downwards and to which are attached the four Vedas,
who remains wakeful in the love of the Supreme Lord, O Nanak, easily reaches that Tree.
The elysian tree is in the courtyard of my house and it has the flowers leaves and stems of truth.
Ponder over the bright self-existent Lord, whose light is pervading everywhere and renounce the various worldly involvements.
Hear, O ye advice-seeker, Nanak entreats thee to give up the secular bonds.
Deem thou in thy mind that by imbibing love for one God. thou shalt not again be subjected to birth and death.
He alone is said to be a Guru he a disciple and he a physician, who knows the patient's malady.
Him deeds, duties and entanglements involve not and doing his household affairs, he remains united with the Lord.
He forsakes lust, wrath egotism avarice temporal love and worldly valuables.
Within his mind he meditates on the True and imperishable Lord and he finds Him by the Guru's grace.
Gnosis and meditation are all said to be God's gifts unto him and all the demons assume white colour before him.
He enjoys the relish of the honey of Lord's lotus, remain awake and falls not asleep.
The lotus of the Lord is exceedingly profound and its leaves are the nether regions and it is united with the entire world, O Nanak.
By virtue of Guru's teaching I shall not enter the womb again. I have discarded poison and quaffed the Name Nectar.
Gujri 1st Guru.
Who and which beg of the Beneficent Lord, their limit and number cannot be ascertained.
As is the desire, within man's mind that O powerful True Lord, Thou fulfillest;
O Sire, the support of Thy True Name is my worship, penance and self-mortification.
My Lord Gods bless me with Thy Name that I may have peace. Thine treasures are brimful with devotion. Pause.
Some remain absorbed in Lord's love in profound trance and reflect over but one Name.
In that state there is no water land, earth and sky and the Creator, all by Himself, remains.
Then, there is no intoxication of mammon, no shadow of ignorance, neither the infinite light of the sun nor of the moon.
With the eyes in their mind, they behold everything and with their one glance, they come to possess the knowledge of the three worlds.
He has created air, water, fire, Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva and the entire creation.
All are mumpers, Thou alone art the Beneficent Lord. Thou givest volition.
Thirty three millions of gods bed of the Lord Master, whose treasures exhaust not by giving.
In an inverted vessel nothing can be put and the Nectar is seen falling, into an upright One.
The adepts in their trance, beg Thee for the alms of wealth and miracles and shout Thine victory.
As is the thirst in man's mind, so is the kind of water, which Thou givest unto him.
The very fortunate ones serve their Guru and there is no difference between the Guru and God.
They, who in their mind, realise the Master's meditation, them the death's minister spies not.
O God, bless me with the love of Thine pure Name. At any time whatever, I beg Thee not for another thing.
Nanak, the pied-cuckoo, prays for the Nectareous Water of Thy Name, O Lord. Mercifully less him with Thy praise.
Gujri 1st Guru.
O Sire, man is born, dies and continues coming and going, again and again, Without the Guru, he is emancipated not.
The pious persons are imbued with the Name and through the Name they obtain salvation and honour.
O brother, fix thy mind on the Lord's Name.
Such is the glory of the Name, that by Guru's grace, man begs of the Lord God alone. Pause.
O Sire, many men wear various religious garbs for begging and for filling their bellies.
O mortal, sans God's service, there is no peace and without the Guru, pride departs not.
O Sire, death ever, stands over man's head. Birth after birth, it is his enemy.
They, who are imbued with the True Name, are saved, the True Guru has imparted this understanding unto me.
In Guru's sanctuary, death's myrmidon cannot harass the man or even look at him.
With the Imperishable and Immaculate Lord I am imbued and with the Fearless Master, I have imbibed affection.
O Sire, implant the Name within thee enshrine love for the Name and seek the True Guru's sanctuary.
Whatever pleases Him that He does and His doings no one can erase.
O Sire, my Guru I have hastened to thine protection. Any other protection I like not.
Ever do I utter the Name of the One Lord alone. Till eternity, it is my helper.
O Sire, preserve the dignity of Thy Name with Thee, I am hand and glove.
Have mercy on me and show me thy vision, O Guru. Through the Name, I have burnt down my ego.
O Sire, what should I ask, nothing appears permanent. Whosoever is come in this world shall depart.
Grant unto Nanak the wealth of Thy Name O Lord. His heart and throat he will adorn therewith.
Gujri 1st Guru.
O Sire, I am not high neither low nor middling. I am God's slave and I seek His protection.
I am imbued with only the Name am detached from the world and have forgotten sorrow, separation and ailment.
O brother, by the grace of the Guru Lord's devotional; service is performed.
He, within whose mind are the hymns of the True Guru obtains the pure Lord. He is neither under the rule of death nor he owes death anything. Pause.
He utters God's praise with his tongue, feels Lord's presence and does whatever pleases Him the Lord God.
Without God's name gain is man's life in this world and every moment which passes without God goes fruitless.
O Sire, within and without there is no room for the false one and the slanderer finds no salvation.
Though the man reproves and resents the Lord discontinues not His gifts, which grow more day by day.
The Guru's gift none can erase O Sire for my Lord has Himself caused it to be given.
The black slanderers, who like not Guru's Gift, have slander in their mouth.
O Sire, the Lord pardons and blends with Himself those who enter His sanctuary and in this He makes not even half an iota's delay.
The source of bliss is He the Lord of Lord's and the True Guru, unites in His union.
O Sire, the ever gracious Lord is meditated upon by Guru's grace and through Guru's instruction do our wanderings cease.
Touching the philosopher's stone metal becomes gold. Such is the greatness of the society of saints.
God's name, is the pure water the soul is the bather and the True Guru is the bath-man, O brother.
By associating with the saints society man is not born again and his light merges into the Supreme light.
Thou art the Great Lord and an Infinite Tree and I a bird am under Thine protection.
Grant unto Nanak Thy Immaculate Name and he will sing Name's praise all the ages through.
Gujri 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is attained.
The saints remember God with love. They thirst for the True Name and hear it with infinite affection.
They beseech and implore the Lord with tears and through hearty love and affection abide in peace.
My soul, utter thou the Name and seek Lord's protection.
Lord's Name is the boat to cross the world-ocean. Adopt thou such a way of life. Pause.
By remembering God under Guru's instruction, even death becomes thy well-wisher, O man.
By heartily repeating God's Name, man's mind receives the treasure of real Divine knowledge and supreme bliss.
The mercurial (restless) mind wanders and runs after wealth and is intoxicated with the love of temporal attachment.
Being imbued with Guru's hymns and instruction, God Name and devotional service are permanently established in man's mind.
By wandering to holy places doubt departs not with the curse of birth and death the world is ruined.
God's seat is free from this curse and he who is truly wise utters the Name as his penance.
This world is engrossed in temporal love and attachment and endures the great pain of birth and death.
By hastening to the True Guru's asylum and repeating God's Name heartily the mortal swims across.
By accepting Lord's meditation, under Guru's teaching, stable becomes the man's mind.
Pure is the mind in which there is truth and the excellent jewel of Divine knowledge.
By fear, love worship and fixing his attention on God's Feet, the man crosses the terrible ocean.
O God, enshrine within my mind Thy Name which is the purest of the pure. This body of mine is in Thy sanctuary.
The capital of God's Name in the mind undoes the waves of avarice and greed.
Chasten my mind, Thou O pure Lord. Says Nanak, I have entered Thy asylum.
Gujri 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I dance and make this mind of mine to dance also.
By Guru's grace, I efface my self-conceit.
He, who keeps his mind fixed on God, is emancipated and obtains the fruit which he yearns for.
Dance, O man, before thy Guru.
If thou dancest according to the Guru's will then thou shalt obtain peace and at the last moment the fear of death shall leave thee. Pause
He, whom the Lord Himself causes to dance is called a saint. To His love He Himself applies the man.
God Himself sings, Himself causes to hear and puts this blind man on the right path.
He who dances night and day and banishes mammon, enters the Master's mansion, where there is no sleep.
Asleep in the house of mammon the world dances leaps and sings of duality. The perverse person embraces not meditation.
The demigods, men renouncers, rutualists, silent sages and the divines dance.
The perfect persons, strivers and pious persons who have discernible intellect embrace Lord's love and dance.
The universes solar systems beings endowed with three dispositions and morals who bear Thee love, O Lord dance.
The men and beasts and birds all dance as also dance the four sources of creation.
They alone dance, who art pleasing to Thee and who the pious bear love to the Name.
They are the saints and they the real divines whom Thou causeth to obey Thy command.
This is the worship that one loves the True One. Without service one cannot be a saint.
If man remains dead in life, i.e. controls his self then does he reflect on the Name and then alone can he obtain the True Lord.
Many men dance for the sake of mammon. Rare is the mortal who meditates on the `Real Thing'.
The man to whom Thou showest mercy obtains Thee, O Lord by Guru's grace.
If I forget the True Lord even for an instant that time passes in vain.
At every breath ever remember thou the Lord and He in His will Himself shall forgive Thee.
They alone dance who are pleasing to thee and also they the Guru-wards, who ponder on the Name.
Says Nanak, they on whom is Thine grace obtains the celestial peace.
Gujri 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Without God, my soul cannot live as a milk-dieted child cannot do without milk.
The Inaccessible and Incomprehensible Lord is obtained through the Guru and unto my True Guru, I am a sacrifice.
O my soul, God's praise is a boat to cross over.
They on whom is Thine grace obtain the Name's ambrosial water, through the Guru. Pause.
Sanak, Sanandan and Narad, the sage, serve Thee and night and day continue to repeat Thy name O Lord of the jungles.
Slave Prahlad sought Thine protection and Thou didst save his honour.
The one Light of the Unseen and pre Lord alone is pervading everywhere.
All are beggars; Thou alone art the Giver. Stretching forth their hands all beg Thee for alms.
Sublime is the speech of the holy-men they ever sing the wondrous and ineffable discourse of God.
Fruitful becomes their life and they save themselves and save their lineage.
The way-ward are engrossed in duality and evil-intent and within them is the darkness of worldly love.
The gospel of the saintly persons they love not and they get drowned along with their family.
By slandering the slanderer washes other's filth and he is the filth eater and wealth - worshipper.
He indulges in the slander of the pious person. He is neither on this shore nor on the yonder one.
All this world play is set afoot by the Creator and God the Creator has installed might amongst all.
The one Lord's thread worlds in the works in the worlds and when He pulls out the thread the creation falls and only the unique personality remains.
With their tongue the saints sing God's praise the Nectar of Nectars and on their tongue they place God's elixir.
Nanak, without God I ask for nothing but God and the love of Lord's nectar alone is dear unto me.
Gujri 5th Guru.
There is but One God By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Among Kings, Thou art called the King, and amidst land-lords thou art the Land -Lord.
Among Lords Thine is the over Lordship and among races Thine is the supreme race.
My Father is exceedingly wealthy and unknowable Master.
What praise of Thine, I Creator, should I narrate? Beholding Thee, I am astonishingly pleased. Pause.
Among the peaceful, Thou art called the most peaceful and among the givers the Supreme Giver.
Of the grandees, Thou art said to be the great Grandee, and of the relishers the supreme Relisher.
Amidst the warriors, Thou art called she great warrior and amidst enjoyer the great Enjoyer.
Among householders, Thou art the great. Householder and among Yogis the great Yogi.
Amongst builders, Thou art called the great Maker and among ritualists the great Ritualist.
Thou art the True Bankers and the supreme Merchant among merchants.
Of all the courts, Thine is the True Court and amongst the protection givers Thou art the Supreme.
How much is Thy wealth, cannot be measured and Thine coins I cannot count.
Amongst Names, Thy Name, O Lord is the most sublime and among divines Thou art the great Divine.
Of the ways Thy way is the best, O Lord and of the bathers. Thou art the best Bather.
Among miracles Thine, O Lord is the best miracle and among deeds Thine deed is the noblest.
In all the wills, Thy will, O Lord, is the supreme and in commands Thine is the over-riding command.
As Thou causest me to speak, so do I speak, O my Master, Else what power do I have to speak?
In the saints society, which is very dear to the Lord, Nanak has sung His praises.
Gujri 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my Lord God, Man-lion Incarnate the Relation of the poor and the Purifier of the sinners,
the Destroyer of dread and fear, merciful Master and the Treasure of merits, fruitful is Thine service.
God is the Cherisher of the world and the great Master of the Universe.
Of Thine Feet, I have taken the protection, O Kind Lord. Make me swim across the terrible world ocean. Pause.
O the Dispeller of lust and wrath, the Burner of pride and worldly attachment the Enemy of ego, the Honey of the soul,
set aside my birth and death and preserve mine honour, O the Earth-Sustainer and the Embodiment of supreme Bliss.
The various waves of desire for riches are brunt, when God's comprehension is enshrined in the mind by Guru's hymns.
O Infinite Lord, the Embodiment of compassion, destroy my haughty-intent and dispel my anxiety.
Every moment and trice, remember thou the Omnipotent God and in the trance of poise embrace Lord's contemplation.
O Merciful to the poor and perfectly blissful Lord, I beg the dust of Thine saints' feet.
False is worldly love, filthy the desire and evil the longing.
Save my faith from these, remove doubt from my mind and redeem me, O Formless Lord.
They, who are without raiment become wealthy with treasure, through God's riches.
The stupid foolish and senseless persons become virtuous and patient by the gracious glance of the Lord of wealth.
By remembering the Lord of the Universe and having faith in Him in thy mind, O man, thou shalt be emancipated in life.
To show kindness and compassion to the sentient beings and to realise the Lord pervading everywhere is the rule of life of the supreme swans.
God grants His view to those, who hear His praise and with their tongue utter His Name.
They ever feel the presence and touch of the Auspicious Master, the Lord, who is the saviour of sinners.
The eulogy of Gujri, 3rd Guru. To be sung according to the tune of the Var of Sikandar Birahm.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Slok 3rd Guru.
This world is perishing in egoism, and knows no the way of life.
He who walks in accordance with the Guru's will, such a person obtains the immortal status.
The mortals, who fix their mind of God's Feet, live for ever and aye.
Nanak by His grace, the Lord abides in the mind and the Guru wards easily merge into Him.
3rd Guru.
Within the way-ward is the pain of doubt and they kill themselves in their urgent affairs.
Asleep in duality they never wake up and to mammon they bear love and affection.
Thy think not of the Name and ponder not on Guru's hymns. This is the conduct of the perverse persons.
They attain not God's Name and waste their life in vain and death's courier punishes and dishonours them.
Pauri.
When the Lord created His ownself, then there was none else.
He took counsel and advice with Himself and what he did that came to pass.
Then there was no sky, no nether region, nor three worlds.
Then was only the Formless Lord Himself and there was no creation.
As it pleased Him so did He act, without Him there was not another.
Slok 3rd Guru.
My Master is eternal. he is seen by practising the Name meditation.
He is never perishable and neither He is born nor does He die.
Ever and ever, serve Him who is contained amongst all.
Why serve another second who is born and then dies?
Unprofitable is the life of those who know not their master and fix their attention on others.
Nanak it cannot be known how much punishment the Creator shall inflict on them?
3rd Guru.
Contemplate thou on the True name. The True Lord is pervading everywhere.
Nanak, by understanding God's order, man becomes acceptable and then obtains the true fruit.
He goes about talking and babbling but realises not Lord's command at all. he is blind and the falsest of the false.
Pauri.
Setting afoot union an separation the Creator laid the foundation of the world.
By His order the Luminous Lord made the universe and infuses His light there in.
From the Luminous Lord alone all light proceeds and the True Guru has preached this knowledge.
Creating Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva with three qualities, God put them to work.
The world is made the root of misgiving and happiness is attained in the fourth state.
Slok 3rd Guru.
That alone is meditation and that the penance which is pleasing to the True Guru.
By pleasing the Satguru, greatness is obtained.
Nanak, by abandoning self-conceit, man merges into the Guru.
3rd Guru.
Rare is the person who receives Guru's instruction.
He alone obtains it whom the Lord Himself grants glory.
Pauri.
Spiritual darkness is the basis of love of worldly valuables and it is difficult and exceedingly heavy to ever-come it.
When the life-boat is heavily laden with the stones of sin, how shall it cross, the stream?
God ferries across those who night and day remain imbued with His devotion.
By Guru's instruction man sheds ego and sin, and his soul becomes stainless.
meditate thou on the Lord Master's Name. The Lord Master is the man's Emancipator.
Slok.
Kabir, the door of salvation is narrow like the one-tenth part of the mustard seed.
How can the soul, which has become bulky like an elephant pass through it?
If man meets such a Guru who becoming mightily pleased shows mercy,
then spacious becomes the gate of salvation and the soul can easily pass in and out.
3rd Guru.
Nanak the gate of salvation is very small and only he who is tiny can pass through.
Due to egotism the soul has become bulky. How can it pass through it?
By meeting the True Guru, egotism departs and mortal is filled with the Divine light.
This soul is, then emancipated for ever and easily remains merged in God.
Pauri.
Creating the world, the Lord has kept it in His sway.
Through count the Lord is not attained and the man wanders in the love of another.
Meeting the True Guru, man remains dead in life, and knowing him he is absorbed in truth.
Through the Name, egotism is shed and one unites in the God's union.
The Lord knows and does everything Himself and beholding His creation he rejoices.
Slok 3rd Guru.
He, who has not fixed his attention on the True Guru, and in whose mind the Name abides not,
accursed is such a life of his. What has he gained by coming into this world.
Mammon is the false capital and in an instant its gilding falls off.
When it slips from man's hand, his body goes black and his face withers away.
They, whose attention is fixed on the True Guru, peace comes and abodes within their mind.
God's Name they remember with cheer and in the love of God's Name they are absorbed.
Nanak, the True Guru has conferred on them the wealth, which remains contained in their heart.
They are blessed with the supreme love of the Lord whose tint increases day by day.
3rd Guru.
Mammon is a she-serpent, which is clinging to the world.
He, who performs her service him she ultimately devours.
Some rare Guru-ward is a snake-charmer and he has trampled and crushed her and thrown her under his feet.
Nanak, they alone are saved who remain absorbed in the True Lord's love.
Pauri.
The minstrel utters a cry and the Lord hears.
Within his mind is composure and he obtains the Perfect Lord.
Whatever destiny is writ by the Lord, those deeds he does.
When the Master becomes merciful them he obtains Master's mansion as his home.
That Lord of mine is exceedingly grand and through the Guru is he met.
Slok 3rd Guru.
There is but One Lord of all and He remains ever present.
Nanak, if the wife obeys not His will then in her very home, the Lord seems far off.
They alone submit to Lord's will, on whom is His grace.
By obeying her spouse's command the woman attains peace and becomes the affectionate, happy wife of His.
3rd Guru.
The evil wife, who loves not her Spouse, keeps on burning and wasting the whole night.
Nanak, the chaste brides, who have God the King as their dear Spouse, abide in peace.
Pauri.
Roaming the whole world through, I have seen God to be the only Giver.
By no device, whatever, God the destiny's scribe can be attained.
By Guru's instruction the Lord God abides in man's mind and is easily revealed unto him.
From within him the fire of desire is quenched and he bathes in the God's tank of Nectar.
The Guru-ward utters forth the great greatness of the great Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
What love subsists between the body and soul, which leaves the Body when fallen?
Why then to feed this body by telling lies, when at the time of departure it goes not with thee?
The body is the blind dust. Go and ask the soul.
The soul says "I am allured by mammon, so I come and go again and again".
Nanak, I know not my Lord's order, by which I should have merged into the True Lord.
3rd Guru.
The Name alone is a stable wealth and all other wealths come and go.
This wealth a thief cannot spy out; nor can a robber take it away.
This Divine wealth is embedded in the soul and with the soul it shall depart.
From the perfect Guru it is obtained. The apostates receive it not in their lap.
Blessed are the traders, O Nanak, who, entering the world, have earned the wealth of God's Name.
Pauri.
My Master is infinitely great, true, profound and unfathomable.
The entire world is within His sway and all this is His extension.
By Guru's grace, the ever-stable and patience -giving wealth of God's name is received.
By Lord's grace the Lord abides in man's mind and he meets with the valiant Guru.
The virtuous praise the ever-stable, immovable and perfect Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Accursed is the life of those who forsake and cast off the peace of God's Name and suffer pain by practising pride and sin.
The ignorant unbelievers are engrossed in the love of riches and they have no understanding.
In this world and the world beyond, they get no peace and ultimately they depart regretting.
Despite the Guru's grace, some rare one meditates on the name and within him departs the pride.
Nanak, he who is so predestined, comes and falls at the Guru's feet.
3rd Guru.
The perverse person is like a reversed lotus and he possesses neither devotion nor God's Name.
In material wealth he remains engrossed and false are his attempts.
His mind melts not from within and harsh are the words of his mouth.
Caused to associate he associates not with the religious and within him are falsehood and selfishness.
Nanak, the Creator has so arranged the affairs that the apostates are drowned by telling lies and the pious are saved by uttering the Lord's Name.
Pauri.
Without understanding the reality, one has to traverse a big circuit, and he continues coming and going, again and again.
He has not performed the service of the True Guru and finally departs repenting.
If the Lord shows His mercy man obtained the Guru and banishes ego from within himself.
Thirst and hunger depart from within him and peace comes to abide in his mind.
Enshrining Lord's love in thy heart, sing thou, O man, His praises for ever and aye.
Slok 3rd Guru.
He, who serves his own True Guru him every one worships.
Of all the efforts, the supreme effort is the attainment of the Lord's Name.
By heartily meditating on the Lord. One is ever in bliss and refreshing peace abodes in his mind.
The Name-Nectar is his food, Name-Nectar his dress, O Nanak, and by the Name he is blessed with glory.
3rd Guru.
O man, hearken to the Guru's instruction and thou shalt obtain God the treasure of merits.
God, the Giver of peace shall abide in thy mind and thy pride and ego shall depart.
Nanak, when man is blessed with God's grace, then, night and day, his attention remains fixed on Him alone.
Pauri.
The one resigned to Guru's will is immaculate. He is the embodiment of all chastity, contentment and truthfulness.
Deception and Wickedness depart from within him and he easily conquers his mind.
Divine light and ambrosial glee are manifested there in his mind, and he loses his ignorance.
Night and day, he sings God's praise and announces his excellences.
The Lord is the Donator of all. God alone is the mortal friend.
Slok 3rd Guru.
He, who understands the Lord, and night and day fixes his attention on Him, is called a Brahman.
Consulting the True Guru, he practises truth and self-restraint and he is rid of the disease of pride.
God's praise he sings, God's praise he amasses and his light blends with the Supreme Light.
In this world, there is hardly any knower of the Lord, who eradicating his ego, becomes absorbed in Him.
Nanak, eternal peace is attained by meeting him, who night and day reflects over the Name of God.
3rd Guru.
With in the mind of the ignorant apostate, is deceit and with his tongue he utters falsehood.
By practising guile, the Omnipotent Lord is pleased not, He ever sees and hears all with natural ease and love.
Through duality he goes and instructs the world He is engrossed in the love-attachment and relish of poisonous wealth.
By so doing, he ever suffers misery. He is born and dies and comes and goes again and again.
His doubt leaves him not at all and in ordure, he rots and putrefies.
He to whom my Master shows mercy, him He causes to hear Guru's instruction.
God's Name, he remembers, God's Name he sings and God's Name delivers him, in the end.
Pauri.
They, whom the Lord causes to obey His order, are the perfect persons in this world.
They serve there Lord and reflect over the perfect hymns of the Guru.
They perform God's obedience and service and enshrine affection for the true name.
They who eradicate self- conceit from within, attain to the Master's mansion.
By remembering God's Name and enshrining it in the mind, the Guru's-wards remain united with Him.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The pious persons reflect on God and in them the celestial strain resounds. They fix their attention on the True Name.
The pious person, night and day remains imbued with Lord's love and God's Name is pleasing to his mind.
The Guru-wards see God, the Guru-wards speak God, and the Guru-wards instinctively profess love for the Lord.
Nanak from the Supreme Guru, gnosis is attained and the pitch gloom of ignorance is dispelled.
On whom is Perfect Lord's grace, he through the Guru meditates on God's Name.
3rd Guru.
They, who serve not the True Guru, embrace not love for the Lord,
and meditate not on the Name in equipoise, what for have they come into the world?
Again and again they are hurled into existences and ever putrefy in ordure.
They are attached with false avarice and are neither on this shore nor in the yonder one.
Nanak, the true Sikhs of the Guru are saved and them the Creator unites with Himself.
Pauri.
The saints, who abide in the True Name look beauteous in the True court.
God's love breaks forth within them and with God's love they are attracted.
They who abide in Divine bliss are ever imbued with Lord's love and their tongue drinks God's elixir,
fruitful is the life of those who through the Guru recognise the Venerable Lord and enshrine Him in their mind.
Without the Guru, the world wanders about bewailing and is ruined in another's love.
Slok 3rd Guru.
In the Dark age, the devotees earn the Name treasure and obtain the Master's supreme dignity.
Serving the True Guru they place God's Name, e in their mind and night and day ponder on the name.
In their own home they remain detached by Guru's instruction and burn their pride and worldly love.
They save themselves and save the whole world. Blest are the mothers who bore them.
He alone, one whose forehead God delineated such destiny in the beginning attains to such a True Guru.
Slave Nanak is s sacrifice unto his Guru, who put him on the right road, when he was straying in doubt.
3rd Guru.
Beholding the mammon of three qualities the man goes astray as the moth seeing the lamp and gets consumed.
The erring and mistaken Brahmans look towards wealth and watch whether some one has offered them something.
Lost in another's love they ever read regarding sin and the Lord has deprived them of His Name.
The Yogis, wandering hermits and ascetics have gone astray and they have greatly increased their pride and arrogance.
They accept not the True alms of clothes and food and through their mind's obstinacy they ruin their life.
From amongst these that man alone is great who through the Guru meditates on the Name.
To whom should slave Nanak tell and complain when all act as God causes them to act?
Pauri.
Love of wealth, lust, wrath and self-conceit are like goblins.
They are the subjects of death and on the head of these hangs the heavy club of Death's Myrmidon.
The apostates who love duality are goaded into death's path.
Bound hands and feet they are beaten in the City of Death and none listens to their shrieks.
On whom is the Lord's grace him meets the Guru and though the Guru the mortal is emancipated.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Egotism and egoism stimulate the mammonish instinct and it eats up the apostates.
They who attach their mind to another's love this mammon sticks and clings to them.
When it is burnt by Guru's word, then alone does it depart from within.
Then the body and soul become bright and the Name comes to abode in the mind.
Nanak the Name of God is an antidote to mammon and through the Guru, this Name is attained to.
3rd Guru.
This soul has wandered through many ages and it has not become stable and continues coming and going.
When God wills He causes the soul to wander then and He has set afoot this world -play.
When the Lord pardons the man then is the Guru-met, and becoming stable he remains absorbed in the Lord.
Nanak, through the mind the mind is propitiated and then nothing dies nor goes.
Pauri.
The human body is the citadel of the Infinite Lord and is attained through destiny.
The Lord Himself is abiding within the body and He Himself is the enjoyer of relishes.
The Lord Himself remains segregated and unaffected but though separate He is yet attached.
He does that what pleases Him and what-ever God does, that comes to pass.
By reflecting over the Name through the Guru, separation from the Lord ends.
Slok 3rd Guru.
He the True Lord, causes Himself to be applauded through the Guru's instruction.
God's Name is His praise and eulogy and some rare one understands this through the Guru.
Blest! blest! are the True humans of the Guru by which man meets his True Master.
Nanak, by uttering God's Name, The Lord is attained and by Lord's grace is obtained His praise.
3rd Guru.
By uttering Lord's praise, through Guru's instruction the tongue is adorned.
Through the perfect Gurbani, the Lord comes and meets the man.
Very fortunate are they who with their mouth utter the Lord's praise.
Beauteous are the persons who remember the Lord Master and people come to adore them.
By good acts Lord's praise is obtained and the man attains honour at the True Lord's gate.
Pauri.
Within the body castle there are adamantine doors of falsehood, fraud and pride.
Deluded by doubt the blind and ignorant apostate see them not.
By no effort can they be found and the guisers have grown weary of adopting religious garbs.
By Guru's instruction the doors are opened and the mortal meditates on God's Name.
The Sire Lord is the ambrosial tree and they who quaff this divine Nectar remain propitiated.
Slok 3rd Guru.
By uttering Lord's praise, the life-night passes in peace.
By repeating God's Name, one is ever in bliss, O my mother.
By uttering Lord's praise, one contracts love with the Lord.
Through virtuous deeds man utters God, God and causes others to utter.
By uttering God, God man obtains honour.
Nanak, praising the Lord, the mortal acts according to the Lord's true will.
3rd Guru.
God, God are the True words, which the Guru-wards have found through search.
They repeat the words God, God; and Lord God they clasp to their heart.
Singing the Lord's praise, the pious persons, easily obtain God through their search.
Very fortunate are they, O Nanak, who in their mind reflect on the Lord God.
Pauri.
O my exceedingly avaricious soul, thou art ever engrossed in greed.
In the craving of deluding mammon, thou wanderest in ten directions.
The Name and caste shall go not hereafter and the way-ward person is consumed by anguish.
Thy tongue tastes not God's elixir and utters harsh words.
They, who through the Guru, quaff Nectar; those persons remain satiated.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Address bravo! bravo! unto Him, who is true profound and unfathomable.
Address bravo! bravo! unto Him who is the Giver of virtue, intellect and patience.
Address bravo! bravo! to Him who is contained amongst all.
Address bravo! bravo! to Him who gives sustenance to all.
Nanak with the words bravo! bravo! praise the one Lord, whom the True Guru has revealed unto me.
3rd Guru.
The Guru-wards ever praise their Lord and the self-wards eat poison and die.
They love not the Lord praise and in extreme misery they pass their life.
The holy quaff Nectar and meditate on the Lord God with fixed attention.
Nanak the persons who repeat God! God! are pure and they obtain knowledge of the three worlds.
Pauri.
By Lord's will the Guru is met and service and devotion adorn the mortal.
By God's will God abides within the mind and man easily drinks the Name-Nectar.
By living according to God's will, man attains peace and ever earns the Lord's profit.
He is seated on God's throne and ever abodes in his own Home.
They alone accept the Lord's will, whom the Guru meets.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The mortals whom the Lord Himself grants understanding ever repeat Lord's Name.
By repeating Lord's Name the soul is sanctified and pride departs from within.
The Guru's disciple who ever utters God's Name, attains his heart cherished fruit.
Beauteous are the persons, who utter Lord's praise. My God, do Thou unite me with them.
Lord's praise, I hymn within my mind and Lord's praise I utter with my mouth.
Nanak, they who eulogise their Lord Master, to them I surrender my body and soul.
3rd Guru.
The Lord God is the True master whose Name is the immortalising Nectar.
They, who serve the Lord, are blessed with the Name-fruit and I am a sacrifice unto them.
Lord Master is the Treasure of excellences. He, whom the Lord gives enjoys His bounty.
The Lord Master is fully pervading the ocean and the land, and through the Guru is He attained to.
Let all the Sikhs of the Guru, ever utter Lord's praise. The perfect Guru is pleased with the Lord's praise.
Nanak, he who in the heart of his heart, repeats God; near him the death's courier draws not.
Pauri.
The reverend Lord is the Truest of the True and true are the Guru's hymns.
Through the True Guru is the Truth recognised and the man is easily absorbed in the True Lord.
Night and day the holy keep awake and sleep not and waking their life-night passes.
Who, by Guru's instruction taste Lord's elixir, they are the meritorious persons.
Without the Guru, none has obtained the Lord. The ignorant ones putrefy and die.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Wah! Wah! (wonderful) are the words which denote the formless Lord. There is none so great as He.
Wonderful! wonderful! is the Inaccessible and Unfathomable Lord. Hail! hail! unto Him, the True One.
Self-dependent is the Lord Master and whatever He does, that comes to pass.
Blessed! blessed! is the Nectar - Name which a few holy men obtain.
The Lord's praise, man obtains through His grace, and showing mercy, He Himself bestows it.
Nanak, by remembering the Name through the Guru, day and night, the wonderful Lord is obtained.
3rd Guru.
Without serving the True Guru, respite is not attained and another's love departs not.
However much one may wish without the Lord's grace, the True Guru is not found.
They, within whom are avarice and sin, are ruined by duality.
Their births and deaths cease not and abiding in egotism, they suffer misery.
They who have fixed their mind on the True Guru, of those none is empty-handed.
Death's Courier summons them not, nor do they suffer pain.
Nanak, the Guru-wards are saved and they merge into the True Lord.
Pauri.
He alone is called an eulogist, who enshrines affection for his Lord.
Standing at the Lord's door, he serves the Lord, and reflects on the Guru's hymns.
The bard attains to the Lord's court and mansion and he keeps the True Lord clasped to his heart.
High is the rank of minstrel and he professes love for God's Name.
God's meditation is His praiser's worship and service, and the Lord emancipates him.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Low is the caste of the milkmaid, but when she ponders over Guru's hymns,
and night and day repeats God's Name, attains to her Spouse.
Who meets with the True Guru, she abides in Lord's fear and She is a woman of high family.
She alone realises the command of her spouse, on whom the Creator showers His benediction.
She, who is of little merit and ill-tempered, is discarded and forsaken by her Spouse.
By entertaining Lord's fear, filth is washed off and pure becomes the body.
Meditating on God, the ocean of excellences, the soul becomes enlightened and intellect sublime.
He who sits in Lord's fear, abides in fear and goes about his business in fear,
he obtains peace and glory here and the gate of salvation in the Lord's court.
From the Lord's fear, the fearless Lord is attained and mortal's light merges into the infinite Light.
Nanak, that bride alone is good, who is pleasing to her Spouse and whom the Creator himself grants pardon.
3rd Guru.
For ever and aye, praise the Lord and be a sacrifice to the True Master.
Nanak, burnt be the tongue, which forsaking the one Lord, is attached to another.
Pauri.
Giving an iota of His might, the Lord created His incarnations, but they indulged in another's Love.
They ruled like the Kings and fought for weal and woe.
They, who serve god of death and god of creation, find not Lord's limits.
The Fearless and Formless Lord is invisible and is revealed, through the Guru.
There, in Lord's mansion, man suffers not sorrow and separation. By remembering Him he becomes stable (immortal) in this world.
Slok 3rd Guru.
All this, as much as the world, is subject to coming and going.
The man, who understands or writes this account, becomes acceptable.
Nanak, if any man prides on his-self, he is silly and stupid.
3rd Guru.
The mind is the elephant, the Guru the elephant-driver, gnosis the goad. Whithersoever the Guru drives, thither goes the mind.
Nanak, the elephant without a goad, again and again, wanders into the wilderness.
Pauri.
My prayer is before Him, who has created me.
By serving my True Guru, I have attained all the fruits.
I ever meditate upon the ambrosial Name of the Lord.
Associating with the society of the pious persons, I am rid of my sufferings.
Obtaining the Imperishable wealth of God, Nanak has become carefree.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Raising the embankments of my mind's field, I gaze at the high sky or mansion.
When Divine devotion enters bride's mind-home, the friendly guest pays her a visit.
O cloud, rain if ye art to rain, why rain afterwards when the season has passed?
Nanak is sacrifice unto those, who through the Guru, enshrine the Lord within their mind.
3rd Guru.
Sweet is that, which is pleasing and a friend is he who sincere.
Nanak, he, whom the Lord Him-self enlightens, is known as the pious person.
Pauri.
To Thee is thine slave's supplication, O Lord. Thou art my true Master.
Ever, ever Thou art my Protector. I meditate on thee.
Men and other beings are all thine and Thou art pervading amongst them.
He, who slanders Thy attendant, him Thou crusheth and destroyest.
By falling at Thine feet, Nanak has forsaken cares and has become care-free.
Slok 3rd Guru.
In building hopes the world dies, but the hopes die not, nor depart.
Nanak, hopes are fulfilled by attaching one's heart to the True Lord.
3rd Guru.
Hopes and desires shall die only when He, who produced them, shall take them away.
Nanak, nothing is permanent, without the God's Name.
Pauri.
Through His perfect workmanship, the Lord Himself created the world.
God Himself is the banker, Himself the Merchant and Himself the shop.
He Himself is the ocean. Himself the ship and Himself the ferryman.
Himself the Lord is the Guru, Himself the disciple and He Himself shows the wharf.
O Slave Nanak, meditate thou on the Name, that all thy sins may be eradicated.
Gujri Measure. A dirge. 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Slok 5th Guru.
Within thy mind, contemplate thou on the Guru and with thy tongue, utter the Guru's Name.
With thine eyes, behold the True Guru and with thine ears, hear the Guru's Name.
Being imbued with the True Guru, thou shalt find a seat in the Lord's court.
Says Nanak, the Lord gives this commodity to him, on whom he showers His benediction.
Rare, very rare, indeed, are such persons, who are said to be good men, in the world.
5th Guru.
The saviour has saved me and He Himself has redeemed me.
Falling at the Guru's feet, mine affairs have been adjusted.
When the Lord Himself becomes compassionate, within my mind, I forget Him not.
In the society of the holy-men, I have crossed the life's dreadful ocean.
The apostates, slanderers and miscreants, the Lord, by has destroyed in an instant.
In his mind, Nanak has the mainstay of the Lord,
by remembering whom, peace is obtained and all the troubles vanish.
Pauri.
Unlineal, Immaculate, Omnipotent, Unapproachable and Infinite is the Lord.
Verily, the True Lord is seen to be the Truest of the True.
Nothing, installed by thee, appears to be false.
The Giver gives sustenance to all, whom, He has created.
String all only on one thread, He has infused His light amongst them.
By His will, some down in the terrible ocean, and by His will some ferry across.
O Sire Master, he alone meditates on thee, on whose forehead good fortune is recorded.
Thine condition and extent cannot be known, I am a sacrifice unto Thee.
Slok 5th Guru.
When Thou art pleased, O Kind Lord, Thou unexpectedly dwellest in my mind.
When Thou art pleased, O Kind Lord, I obtain the nine treasures in my own home.
When Thou art pleased, O Kind Lord, then I act according to the Guru's instruction.
When Thou art pleased, O Merciful Master, then Nanak is observed in the True one.
5th Guru.
Many sit on thrones and have the play of good many musical instruments.
Nanak, without the True Name, no body's honour has been safe.
Pauri.
Standing with Vedas and semitic scriptures at Thy door, the mortals contemplate on Thee.
Counting of those is not possible who lie prostrate at Thine door.
The god of creation deliberates over Thee, as does the god of rain on his throne.
The god of death, god of nutrition and incarnations utter God's praise with their mouth.
The spiritual guides, prophets, religious instructors, seers and men of miracles, meditate on Thee.
Like wrap and woof, the Formless Lord is woven into all the hearts.
Through falsehood, the man is destroyed and through righteousness, he prospers.
Whithersoever the Lord Himself yokes the man, thither is he yoked.
Slok 5th Guru.
The man is indolent to do good, but he is a tiger to do evil.
Nanak, today or tomorrow, the feet of the heedless person shall fall into a trap.
5th Guru.
However evil are my ways, but Thy love, O Lord, for me is not hidden.
Thou O Lord, the true Friend who abides in my mind, hast screened Nanak's short comings.
Pauri.
My Merciful Master, I beg of Thee to make me a slave of Thine attendants.
By uttering Thy Name I sustain life, obtain nine treasures and sovereignty.
In the home of God's serfs, is the big treasure of the ambrosial Name.
By hearing Thine praise with my ears, in their association, I am mightily pleased.
By performing their service, my body is purified.
I cool them with a fan, carry water for them, grind their corn and am over-joyed by washing their feet.
By myself I can do nothing. My Master look thou towards me with Thy merciful glance.
Bless me, a sinner with a seat in the saints place of piety, O Lord.
Slok 5th Guru.
My friend, may I ever be the dust of Thine Feet.
Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary and sees Thee ever face to face.
5th Guru.
Countless sinners become pure, by fixing their mind on God's Feet (Name).
He, on whose forehead such a destiny is recorded, O Nanak, obtains the Lord's Name for the sixty eight holy places.
Pauri.
With every breath and morsel of thine, ever remember thou the Name of thy Cherisher Lord.
The Lord forgets not him, on whom He showers His benediction.
Himself He is the Creator, and He Himself destroys.
God, the Knower, knows every thing, and having understood, gives though to His creation.
By his power, the Lord assumes many forms in a moment.
he, whom the Lord attaches to truth, him He redeems.
He, on whose side is He, the master, never stands vanquished.
Ever Imperishable is His court and unto Him I make an obeisance.
Slok 5th Guru.
Forsake thou thy lust, wrath and avarice and burn them in fire.
As long as thou art alive, ever dwell upon the True Name, O Nanak.
5th Guru.
Pondering and reflecting over my Lord, I have attained all the fruits.
O Nanak, I have meditated on the Name and the Perfect Guru has united me with the Lord.
Pauri.
He, whom the Guru has instructed, is emancipated in this world.
His calamity is averted and his anxiety is obliterated.
By beholding his sight, the word is over-joyed.
In the society of Lord's slave, man becomes happy, and the filth of his sins is washed off.
The ambrosial True Name is meditated upon there.
The soul acquires contentment and hunger is satiated.
He, in whose heart the Name abides, his fetters are cut off.
It is by Guru's grace that some rare person earns the wealth of God's Name.
Slok 5th Guru.
Within my mind, I think of the idea of ever rising early and making an effort.
O God, the Friend, bless Nanak with the love-effort of singing Lord's praise.
5th Guru.
Casting His merciful glance, the Lord has saved me and my mind and body are imbued with the Primal Being.
Nanak, they who are pleasing to the Master, the helpless woes of theirs die down.
Pauri.
Regarding thy mind's woe, make supplication before thy Guru.
Forsake thou all thy cleverness and dedicate unto him thy mind and body.
Worship thou the Guru's feet that thy evil-intellect be burnt off.
Joining the society of holymen, cross thou the difficult and dreadful world-ocean.
Serve the Divine True Guru, and hereafter, thou shalt not die of fear.
In a moment, he shall make thee happy and shall completely fill the empty vessel.
By ever meditating on the Lord, the mind acquires contentment.
He alone applies himself to True Guru's service, on whom is the God's grace.
Slok 5th Guru.
I am attached to the propicious place and the Uniter has united me.
Nanak, there are hundreds and lacs of waves, but my Spouse lets me not get drowned.
5th Guru.
In the dreadful wilderness, I have found the one companion, God's Name is the distress destroyer.
A sacrifice, sacrifice, am I unto the dear saints who have adjusted mine affairs, O Nanak.
Pauri.
Imbued with Thy love, O Lord, all the treasure are obtained.
By contemplating on Thee, repentance overtakes not the mortal.
Thy slave has Thine support, None can equal him.
Wonderful! wonderful! is the Perfect Guru by cherishing him in my mind, I attain peace.
With the Guru is the treasure of Lord, praise and through Guru's grace, it is attained.
When the True Guru looks with favour, the mortal wanders not again.
Making man His own serf, the Merciful Master Himself protects Him.
I live by continuously hearing the Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord's Name.
Slok 5th Guru.
Thou, O Spouse, hast given me the silk raiment of Thy love to shield my honour.
Thou, O my Master, art wise and discerning and Nanak, I realise not Thine worth.
5th Guru.
By Thine meditation I have found everything and have experienced or seen no difficulty.
Nanak, he whose honour the True Lord preserves, him no one can dishonour.
Pauri.
Man gets great peace by meditating on the Lord
The multitudes of maladies vanish by singing God's glories.
peace reigns within, by contemplating over the Lord.
Hope is fulfilled by enshrining the Name within the mind.
No obstacle befalls a man, if he effaces his self-conceit.
The mind obtains Diving knowledge, dainties and understanding from the Guru.
He, whom the Lord Himself gives, receives all the things.
Thou art the Master of all and all are under Thy protection.
Slok 5th Guru.
My foot sticks not, while crossing the rivulet, as I cherish love for Thee.
To Thine feet, O Spouse, my soul is sewn and God is Nanak's raft and boat.
5th Guru.
They, a sight of whom banishes, evil-inclinations, are my friends.
I have searched the whole world through, but O Serf Nanak very rare are such persons.
Pauri.
Thou, O Lord, comest into my mind, when I behold Thine saints.
By abiding in the society of saints, the filth of mind is removed.
The fear of birth and death is dispelled by acting up to or remembering His Serf's instruction.
The saints untie the bonds and the demons all vanish away.
The saints make us love Him, who has installed the entire universe.
The highest of the high is the seat of the Inaccessible and Infinite Lord.
With clasped hands, night and day, remember Him with every breath of thine.
When the Lord Himself becomes merciful, then in the society of His devotees attained.
Slok 5th Guru.
In this wondrous world forest, there is tumult and confusion and shrieks resound in the high-ways.
What Thee, O my Spouse, am I attached in love, so I traverse the jungle with joy.
5th Guru.
True is the society of those, in whose company, the Name is meditated upon.
Nanak, associate not with those, who have their own self interest.
Pauri.
That time is approved, when one meets the True Guru.
If man joins the society of saints, he, then, falls, not in the clutches of pain.
If one attains to the eternal abode, he enters not the womb, again.
He sees the unique Lord everywhere.
withdrawing from other sights he fixed his attention on the real gnosis.
All the recitations are recited by him, who with his mouth utters the Lord's Name.
Knowing God's will, man becomes happy and is filled with ease and peace.
They who are assayed and consigned to the treasury are not declared counterfeit, again.
Slok 5th Guru.
The pincers of separation are hard to bear.
If He, the Master meets me, then, O Nanak, I attain all the true comforts.
5th Guru.
The earth abides in waters and the fire is confined in the wood.
Nanak, long for that Spouse, who is the prop of all.
Pauri.
All the work done by Thee, O Lord, are dependant on Thee alone.
That alone happens in the world, which Thou O Master hast done.
I am wonder struck by beholding Thy astounding omnipotence.
I, Thy slave, have sought Thy refuge. If Thou showest mercy, then I shall be emancipated.
The treasure is in Thine hands and Thou givest it to him, whom Thou likest.
He, on whom Thou art merciful, O God, is blessed with Thy Name.
Unapproachable, Unperceivable and Unlimitable art Thou O Lord, Thy limit cannot be known.
He alone meditates on Thy Name, unto whom Thou art compassionate.
Slok 5th Guru.
The ladles cruise through the food, but know not the relish and remain without it.
Nanak longs to see the faces of those, who are imbued with the relish of Lord's love.
5th Guru.
Through the Guru, tracker, I have found the tracks of those, who had destroyed my crop.
Thou, O Spouse, hast put a fence and the field shall no longer be laid waste, O Nanak.
Pauri.
Contemplate thou on that True Lord, who has everything with Him.
Of both the ends, He Himself is the Master and in an instant, He adjusts the affairs.
Abandon thou all the efforts and hold fast to His protection.
Hasten thou to His sanctuary and obtain the comfort of all the comforts.
The meritorious deeds, faith and real gnosis, are obtained in the society of saints.
Dwelling on the ambrosial Name, no obstacle befalls the mortal.
He, unto whom the Lord Himself is kind in his mind He abides.
Through the Lord's pleasure, all the treasures are obtained.
Slok 5th Guru.
My Beloved took pity on me and I have found my Find.
God alone is the Creator, I see not another, O Nanak.
5th Guru.
Taking aim with the arrow of truth, bring down the sin.
Remember thou the Guru's utterances, O Nanak and no sorrow shall befall thee.
Pauri.
Blest! blest is the Creator, who has Himself promulgated peace all round.
Ever contemplate on Him, who is kind to the men and lower beings.
The Omnipotent Lord has shown mercy unto me and all my bewailings have ended.
By the Perfect Guru's auspices, my fever, pain and ailments have all run away.
The Cherisher of the Poor has Himself protected and established me.
Shattering all the shackles, He has Himself delivered me.
My thirst is quenched, hope is fulfilled and my mind is contented and satiated.
Infinite and the Highest of the high is my Master, who is affected not by virtue and vice.
Slok 5th Guru.
They alone meditate on the Lord God, to whom the Master is merciful.
Meeting the saints society, O Nanak, they come to enshrine affection for the Lord.
5th Guru.
O ye very fortunate ones, ponder over the Lord. Who is contained in ocean, earth and sky.
Contemplating on the Name, O Nanak, no calamity befalls the mortal.
Pauri.
Approved is the speech of the devotees. It is accepted in the Lord's court.
The saints have Thine support, O Lord They are imbued with the True Name.
He, unto whom Thou becomest compassionate; His woes departs.
O Merciful Master, Thy slaves are Thine and Thou blesseth them with Thy grace.
Woe, pain serious disease and mammon afflict them not.
This alone is the mainstay of the saints, that they sing the praise of the World-Lord.
For ever and aye, they, day and night, reflect upon the Unique Lord alone.
Quaffing the ambrosial Name, His slaves remain sated with the Name.
Slok 5th Guru.
Millions of obstacles come in the way of him, who forgets the Name.
He croaks, night and day, O Nanak, like a crow in an empty house.
5th Guru.
Beauteous is the season, when my union with my Beloved is effected.
I forget Him not even for a moment and trice Nanak remembers Him ever.
Pauri.
No brave and mighty person can withstand the powerful
and persevering army, which the five evil passions have amassed.
The ten organs -the five sensory and five motor - attach even the anchorites to the evil deeds.
Defeating and vanquishing the mortals they increase their following this is what they want.
The men of three dispositions are under their sway and none can stand up to them.
Say, in What way can the fort of doubt and the moat of mammon be over-powered?
Contemplating on the Perfect Guru this formidable force is subdued.
With joined hands, day and night, I remain standing before Him.
Slok 5th Guru.
By ever, ever singing God's praise, all the sins are washed off.
Millions of maladies are produced, O Nanak, when the Name is forgotten.
5th Guru.
O Nanak, by meeting the True Guru, man comes to know the perfect way,
and while laughing, playing, dressing and eating, he gets emancipated.
Pauri.
Blessed! blessed! is the True Guru, who has demolished the fortress of doubt.
Hail! hail! unto the True Guru, who has unitest me, with the Lord.
The inexhaustible, Name treasure, the Guru has given me as a medicine.
That has banished the great and terrible ailment of spiritual ignorance.
I have obtained the great treasure of the wealth of the Lord's Name.
By recognising my ownself I have won and attained an infinite life.
The glory of the Omnipotent and bright Guru, cannot be described.
The Guru is himself the Limitless, Invisible and Inscrutable Lord Master.
Slok 5th Guru.
Making an effort for the Name, thou shalt live and practising it, thou shalt enjoy peace.
By meditating on the Name, O Nanak, thou shalt meet the Lord and thy anxiety shall vanish.
5th Guru.
O Lord of the world, bless me with sublime thoughts, Thy meditation and immaculate society of saints.
O Auspicious Master, show mercy unto Nanak, that he may not forget Thee even for a moment.
Pauri.
When everything is done by Thee, why should I, then, feel fear?
By meeting whom, the Name is remembered, Unto him tender thou thy soul.
By recollecting in the mind, the Infinite Lord, the mortal is enraptured.
Who can touch him, on whose side is the Formless Lord?
All are subject to His sway. None is beyond His pale.
He, the joyful True Lord, abides in the mind of His devoted slaves.
Thine serfs contemplate on Thee alone, O Thou the Saviour.
Thou art the Omnipotent Over Lord of all and through Thine grace all are blessed.
Slok 5th Guru.
Banish from within me, lust, wrath, pride, avarice, worldly love and evil desire.
Protect me, O My Lord, Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
5th Guru.
By continuously eating, the mouth is worn out and by wearing, are tired all the limbs.
Accursed is the life of those, O Nanak, who are imbued not with the True Lord's love.
Pauri.
As, as is Thy command, so, so does it happen.
Wheresoever Thou Thyself keepst me, there I go and stand.
With the love of Thy Name, I wash off my evil intellect.
By continuously meditating on Thee, O formless Lord, my doubt and dread are dispelled.
They, who are imbued with Thine affection are not yoked to existences.
Within and without, they see the one Lord with their eyes.
They, who recognise Lord's will, weep not ever.
Nanak, they attain the Name's gift, which they string into their mind.
Slok 5th Guru.
He, who, while living, remembers not the Lord, on dying he mixes with the dust.
The foolish and filthy mammon worshipper, O Nanak, passes his life engrossed with the world.
5th Guru.
He, who in life, meditates on God and associates with the society of saints and on dying gets imbued with God's love,
O Nanak, he makes fruitful his precious human life.
Pauri.
From the primal and ancient times Thou Thyself art the Preserver.
O Creator, true is Thine Name and true Thine creation.
Thou art not deficient is anything and art filling every heart.
Thou art compassionate, and all powerful and Thyself causeth man to serve Thee.
Ever at peace are they, within whose mind, Thou Thyself abidest.
Having created the creation Thyself, Thou Thyself cherisheth it,
All by Thyself Thou art, O Infinite and unlimited Lord.
Nanak has sought the sanctuary of the Perfect Guru.
Slok 5th Guru.
In the beginning, middle and end, the Supreme Lord has saved me.
The True Guru has blessed me with God's Name and I have tasted Nectar.
In the society of saints, night and day, I utter the Infinite Lord's praise.
I have obtained all the life-objects and shall not wander in transmigration.
All things are in the hands of the Creator, who does all the deeds.
Nanak, asks for the alms of the dust of saints feet, wherewith he shall be delivered.
5th Guru.
Enshrine Him in thy mind, who did create thee.
Whosoever, meditates on the Lord, he obtains peace.
Fruitful is the birth and acceptable is the advent of the pious person in this world.
He who accept the will, is blessed says the Master.
He, unto whom the Lord Himself becomes merciful, wanders not.
Whatsoever the Lord gives him, in that he finds his peace.
Nanak, he on whom Lord, the Friend, is kind, him he causes to understand His command.
He whom the Master Himself strays, ever continues coming and going.
Pauri.
The Lord instantaneously destroys the slanderers and allows them not to stay even for trice.
The Master cannot suffer the pain of his serf, but catching the slanders, he yokes them to transmigration.
Catching them by the hair of their head, he dashes them to the ground and goads them on to the death's road.
The Lord throws them into the dark hell, where they groan in agony.
But hugging to His bosom, O Nanak, the True Lord saves His slaves (devotees).
Slok 5th Guru.
Contemplate on the Lord, O ye fortunate ones; as He is fully pervading the ocean and earth.
Nanak, by remembering the Name no misery befalls the man.
5th Guru.
Myriads of troubles come in the way of him, who forgets the God's Name.
Nanak, like a crow in a deserted house, he bewails night and day.
Pauri.
Reflecting and pondering over the Bountiful Lord, the heart's desires are fulfilled.
My mind's craving and hope are realised and my sorrows are dispelled.
I have obtained the Name treasure, of which I was in search.
My light is blended with the Supreme Light, and my toil is ended.
I abide in the home, wherein reign peace, poise and pleasure.
My comings and goings, have ceased, as there is no birth and death there.
The Master and the Serf then become one and seem not separate from each other.
By Guru's grace, Nanak is absorbed in the True Lord.
Gujri Measure. Hymns of the Saints.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Chaupada of Reverend Sire Kabir.
With four feet, two horns and a dumb mouth, how shalt thou, then, sing God's praise?
Standing and sitting the stick shall fall on thee, so where wilt thou, then, hide thy head?
Without God, thou shalt become a borrowed ox.
With a torn nose and maimed shoulders, thou shalt eat the straw of coarse grain. Pause.
All day thou shalt wander in the forest, even then thy belly shall not be satiated.
Thou listened not to the advice of the holy men, consequently thou shalt obtain the fruit of thy actions.
Experiencing weal and woe and drowned in great doubt, thou shalt wander in many existences.
Thou hast lost thy gem - like life by forgetting the Lord. So when shalt thou have such an opportunity, again?
Thou revolvest like and oilman's ox and thy life - night shall pass without attaining salvation.
Says Kabir, sans the Lord's Name, thou shalt smite thy head and repent.
Gujri.
Kabir's mother sobs, sobs and wails,
O Lord of Raghwa tribe, how shall these children live?
Kabir has given up all his spinning and weaving,
and has inscribed God's Name on his body. Pause.
As long as I pass the thread through the bobbin,
so long do I forget my Beloved Lord.
Mean is my understanding and I am a weaver by caste.
I have reaped the profit of the God's Name.
Says Kabir, "Hear, O my mother,
for us and of these, the Lord alone is the Provider".
Gujri. Venerable Sire. Namdev.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is attained.
If Thou givest me an empire, what glory, then is this to me?
If Thou makest me beg alms, what shall it, then detract from me?
Meditate thou on thy God, O My soul and thou shalt obtain the dignity of salvation?
Like this thou shalt not, again come and go. Pause.
Thou hast created all and has led them astray in doubt.
Whomsoever Thou givest comprehension, he understands Thee.
When the True Guru is met, it is then that the doubt is dispelled.
Whom else should I worship? I see not another.
One stone is lovingly adored.
Another stone is trodden under the feet.
If the one is a god, the other is also a god.
Says Namdev, I therefore, serve the Lord alone.
Gujri.
He, who has no trace of filth, is beyond impurity and is perfumed as with sandal, has come and taken his seat in my mind.
No one has seen Him coming. So who can know Him, O brother?
Who can describe and who can understand the Omnipresent and Unlineal Lord, O Sister? Pause.
As the Track of a bird is not perceived in the sky,
as the path of a fish cannot be seen in the water,
and as the vessel is not filled with the mirage water of the sky,
so is God, Nama's Lord, to whom these three illustrations befit.
Gujri. Reverend Sire Ravidass.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The calf has defiled the milk in the teats.
The black-bee has spoiled the flower and fish the water.
My Mother, wherefrom shall I find anything to offer for Lord's worship.
I cannot find other beautiful flowers which have not been defiled. Pause.
The serpents twine around the sandal tree.
Poison and Nectar dwell together.
With incense, lamps, victuals and scents,
how can Thine slaves perform Thy worship?
I dedicate and offer my body and soul as my worship.
By Guru's grace, I attain to the Immaculate Lord.
I have not performed Thine worship and done flower adoration.
Says Ravidass, I Know not what shall be my condition, hereafter?
Gujri Reverend. Sire Tirlochan.
There is but One God. By the Guru's favour, He is obtained.
Thou hast not cleansed thy heart from filth, though apparently thou wearest the dress of a hermit.
In thy body's heart - lotus, thou hast not recognised the Lord, so what for hast thou become a solitarian?
The world hast gone astray in doubt, O Jaichand,
and hast not realised Lord, the Embodiment of supreme bliss. Pause.
Thou wanderest, eating in every house, hast fattened thy body and wearest a patched coat and ear - rings for the sake of wealth.
To thy body, thou hast applied the ashes of crematorium, but being without a Guru, thou hast not found the reality.
O why mutter spells, O why practise austerities and why churn water?
Meditate thou on the Immaculate Lord, who has created the eighty four lakhs of existences.
O Ochre - coloured Yogi, why carriest thou a water-pot and why wanderest thou to thy sixty eight holy places?
Says Trilochan, hear, O mortal, having no corn what is it that thou thrashest?
Gujri.
At the last moment, he has thinks of wealth and dies in such a thought,
is born again and again as the serpent species.
O sister do not ever forget the Name of the Master of the world. Pause.
At the last moment, he who thinks of a woman, and dies in such a thought,
he is born again and again as a prostitute.
At the last moment, he who thinks of the sons and dies in such a thought,
he is born again as the swine species.
At the last moment, he who thinks of mansions and if he dies in such thought,
he is born again and again as a goblin.
At the last moment, he who thinks the Lords, and if he dies in such a thought;
Says Tirlochan, that man is emancipated and the yellow - robed Lord abides in his heart.
Gujri. Reverend Sire Jaidev.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
In the very beginning was the Unrivalled Lord, who loves the qualities like truthfulness etc.
He is supremely wonderful and beyond Nature; by remembering whom, all secure salvation.
Utter thou only the beauteous Name of the Lord,
who is the embodiment of Nectar and Reality.
By remembering whom, the fear of birth, old age and death befalls not the man. Pause.
If thou desirest to shake off the fear of the Death's courier, etc, then do the virtuous deed of singing the praise of the joyful Lord.
In the present, past and future, the Lord is equally pervading, and is the embodiment of supreme bliss.
If thou seekest the way to good conduct, then give up spying, greed etc, and other's property and woman.
Lay aside all evil deeds and evil inclinations and hasten to the sanctuary of Lord, the Holder of quoit.
In thought, deed and word embrace thou the devotional service of thy Immaculate Lord.
What is the good of practising Yoga and penance and what of giving feasts and what of alms?
O man, meditate thou on God, the World - Lord, who is the seat of all the supernatural powers.
Jai Dev has openly come into the sanctuary of Him, who gives salvation to all the present past and future.
There is but One God. True is His Name, creative His Personality. He is without fear, without enmity. Immortal in form, Unborn and self illumined By Guru's grace He is obtained.
Rag Dev Gandhari. 4th Guru.
They who become Lord's serfs and slaves, come to enshrine affection for Him.
They who, under Guru's instruction, utter Thy praise, O Lord, good fortune, nay, rather very good fortune is recorded on their face. Pause.
By fixing attention on the Lord Master's Name, mammon's bonds and snares are shattered.
The Guru - Charmer has captivated my soul and by seeing him, I am wonder-struck.
The whole dark night I slept through and by an iota of Guru's favour, I found myself awake.
O the beauteous Lord Master of slave Nanak, to me none appears to be at par with Thee.
Dev Gandhari.
Tell me, in what lane, shall I find my Beauteous Lord?
O saints of God, show me the way, I should follow. Pause.
The words of the Beloved are pleasing to the mind and good is this custom, which has been established.
The hunch-backed and small statured, if she is liked by her Lord, she becomes beautiful and melting down embraces the Master.
There is but one spouse and all are the Beloved's brides; she who pleases the Spouse, is good.
What can poor and helpless Nanak do? He walks the way, which pleases God.
Dev Gandhari.
O my soul with thy mouth, utter thou the Lord God's Name.
The Guru ward is imbued with the poppy-flower like red colour and her cloak is saturated with her Lord's love. Pause.
For the sake of that darling God I wander about bewildered and astonished like a mad-cap.
Whosoever unites me with my dear beloved, I am the slave of his slaves.
I conciliate my mighty True Guru and quaffing God's elixir swing in glee.
Through Guru's grace, self Nanak has found and obtained God by searching his body.
Dev Gandhari.
I have now come weary to my Master.
Now that I have sought Thine protections, O my Lord Master, it is up to you to save or slay me. Pause.
Men's artifices and praises, them, I have burnt in fire.
Whether some one speak well or speaks ill of me, I have surrendered my body unto Thee.
My Lord Master, whosoever seeks refuge in Thee, mercifully do Thou preserve him.
Slave Nanak has entered Thy sanctuary, O Venerable God, the killer of Mur demon, preserve Thou his honour.
Dev Gandhari.
I am devoted unto him, who sings God's praises.
I live by continually seeing the sight of the Saint Guru, within whose mind is the Lord's Name. Pause.
Immaculate and pure Thou art O Omnipotent Lord Master, How can, I an impure one meet Thee?
I have one thing in my mind and another on my lips. I am an unfortunate liar.
In appearance, I repeat God Master's Name but in my mind, I have harboured the wickedness of the wicked.
As it pleases Thee, so do Thou, O Lord, save the serf Nanak, as he has sought Thy refuge.
Dev Gandhari.
Bereft of the God's Name, the beauteous is ugly as the nose chopped.
As the son, born in the house of a prostitute, he goes by the Name of an accursed mortal. Pause.
They, within whose mind the Lord God is not, they are the ill-featured lepers.
They are like the person without the Guru, and may know many things but is accursed in God, court.
They, unto whom my Master becomes merciful, long for the holymen's feet.
Nanak joining the society of saints, the sinners become pure and by following the great True Guru they are emancipated.
Dev Gandhari. 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O mother, I fix my attention on the Guru's Feet.
By Lord's grace my heart lotus has blossomed and for ever and aye, I meditate on God. Pause.
Within is the one Lord, without is the one Lord and the one Lord is contained amongst all.
In the heart, without the heart and in all the places, the Perfect Lord Master is seen contained.
Good many slaves and sages of Thine, sing Thy praise, but no one knows Thy limits.
O Thou, Master, the Giver of peace and Destroyer of distress slave Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Dev. Gandhari.
O mother, what is to be, that shall be.
The Lord is pervading His creation. Where does the man gain and where does he lose? Pause.
Sometimes he is puffed up with glee, at others he is afflicted with mortal mourning, and at times he laughs and at times he weeps.
Sometimes he is filled with the filth of ego and sometimes he washes it off in the guild of saints.
None can obliterate the Lord's doings, I see not another like Him.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto the Guru, by whose grace I sleep in peace.
Dev Gandhari.
My mother! as I hear and think of death, I am overawed with dread.
Eschewing the idea of my-ness and thy-ness and egotism, I have sought the shelter of the Lord. Pause.
Whatsoever He says, that I deem as good. I say not no to what He bids.
My Master, be not out of my mind even for a moment, as by forgetting Thee, I live not.
The Perfect Creator Lord is the Giver of peace and He suffers my excessive purerility.
O Nanak, I am meritless, ill-featured and of low lineage, but my Lord, the Spouse, is the embodiment of bliss.
Dev Gandhari.
O my soul, ever utter thou the Lord's praise.
By singing hearing and contemplating on Him all the men, whether of high caste or of low family are saved. Pause.
When the mortal knows this way he, then, gets absorbed in Him whence he sprang from.
wherever this body was assumed, at no time this soul was allowed to stay there.
Peace is attained and dread and doubt are dispelled, when the Master becomes merciful.
By Shedding my avarice in the saints society says Nanak my desire are fulfilled.
Dev Gandhari.
O my soul, I do, as it pleases my Master.
I humbly address even the lowest of the low, the mean the supremely tiny. Pause.
Vain are the various ostentations of mammon and with them I lesson my love.
As is my Master pleased in that I find my glory.
I am the slave of God's slave and becoming the dust of His slave's feet, I perform His attendants service.
If I pass my life, uttering God's Name with my mouth, O Nanak, I get all peace and greatness.
Dev Gandhari.
By Thy grace, O reverend Lord I have dispelled my doubt.
I have reflected this in my mind, that by Thy favour, every one is mind. Pause.
By serving Thee, millions of sins are erased, and Thy sight drives away sorrow.
Repeating Thy Name, I have attained supreme bliss and banished all my anxieties and ailments.
In the society of the saints I have forgotten lust, wrath, avarice falsehood and slander.
Nanak, God, the ocean of mercy has Himself cut off my shackles of mammon and saved me.
Dev Gandhari.
The entire cleverness of my mind is ended.
The Lord is the Doer and the Prompter of action and Nanak has clung to His refuge. Pause.
Effacing self-conceit, I have entered God's sanctuary and this is the wisdom, which the Saint - Guru has uttered.
Submitting to the Lord's will, I have attained peace and my darkness of doubt is dispelled.
Knowing Thee to be all-wise, O my Lord Master, I have desired Thine shelter.
In a moment, Thou establishest and disestablishest The worth of Thine Omnipotence cannot be ascertained.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
The Lord Master is my life. He is the Giver of peace.
By Guru's grace, a few know Him. Pause.
Thine saints are beloved of Thee. Them the death devours not.
They (Thine saints) are dyed red in Thy love and with the Nectar of the Lord's Name they are intoxicated.
The great sins and millions of distressed and diseases are destroyed by Thy gracious glance, O Lord.
Falling at the Guru's Feet, sleeping and waking, Nanak sings the Lord's praise.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
That Lord I have seen with my eyes everywhere.
Peace-bestower and the Donor of beings in the Lord, Whose speech is Nectar sweet. Pause.
The saints dispel the darkness of ignorance, and the Guru is the giver of the gift of real life.
Showering His benediction, the Lord has make me His own and, whilst on fire, I am cooled down.
Good deeds and faith have not, in the least, been produced in me, and nor has pure conduct been manifested in me.
Abandoning cleverness and self-mortification, O Nanak, fall thou at the Guru's feet.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
Utter thou the Lord God's Name as in it is thy profit.
Thus shall thou obtain salvation, peace, poise and pleasure and thy death's noose shall be cut off. Pause.
Searching, searching, searching and reflecting, I have found that the Lord's Name is with the pious persons.
They alone obtain this treasure, in whose destiny it is so recorded.
They are very fortunate, they are honourable, and they are the perfect bankers,
they are beauteous, shrewd and comely, who, O Nanak, purchase the Lord God's Name.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
O man, why art thou puffed up with pride?
Whatsoever is seen in this foul, impure and filthy world, that is but ashes. Pause.
O mortal, remember Him, who made thee and who supports life and soul.
The ignorant fool, who forsakes Him and attaches Himself to another continues coming and going.
I am blind, dumb, crippled and devoid of understanding, O Lord, the Preserver, preserve me.
God is Omnipotent to act and causes others to act. How helpless the man is, O Nanak.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
He, the Lord, is the nearest of the near.
Day, night, evening and morning, remember, repeat and sing thou the praise of God, the master of the world. Pause.
O man, save thyself by being in the invaluable society of saints, by meditating on the Lord God's Name.
Make not the delay of an instant, a moment and trice, as death is ever, ever spying thee.
O Creator, pull me out of the dark dungeon of the world. What is that, which is wanting in Thy home?
O Lord, bless Nanak, with the prop of Thy Name that he may ever be in great happiness and peace.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
O man, meeting with the Guru, reflect thou on the Name.
Thus shalt thou obtain peace, poise, joy, pleasure and sweetness and lay the foundation of eternal life. Pause.
Showing mercy, the Lord has made me His slave, and has shattered the mammon's shackles.
By love, devotion and hymning Lord's praise, I have captured the death's path.
The Lord's mercy is on me, the rust is removed and I have found the invaluable wealth.
O my Unapproachable and Unfathomable Lord, Nanak is hundred thousand times a sacrifice unto Thee.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
O Mother, he who sings the hymns the Lord's praise,
and enshrines affection for the supreme Master, fruitful is his advent and advantageous the life of him. Pause.
Beauteous, wise, valiant and divine is he, who obtains the society of saints.
He utters God's Name with his tongue and again, wanders not in births.
The Perfect Lord abides within his body and mind and he sees not another.
O Nanak, hell and affliction befall not him, who joins the society of Lord's slaves and whom the Lord attaches to His skirt.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
Man's mercurial mind is entangled in the dream.
Even this much he understands not, that some day, he has to depart. He is gone mad with mammon. Pause.
He is engrossed in the relish of the society and colour of a flower, and strives only to commit sin.
Wherever he hears some talk of greed. he feels happy in his mind and instantaneously runs thither.
Wandering and roaming I have suffered great pain but have now arrived at Saint - Guru's door.
Showering His benediction, the Lord Master has blended Nanak with Himself.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
all the comforts abide in Guru's Feet.
Guru's feet drive away my sins, purify the soul and through their prop I am saved. Pause.
Their worship, flower offering, service and obeisance unto them, this is the labour which I perform.
Touching them the soul is in bloom and is illumined and I am cast not into the womb again.
I see the fruitful vision of the saint Guru and this is the idea, that I have entertained in my mind.
The Lord has become merciful unto Nanak and he has entered the sanctuary of the Saint Guru.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
Say thou thy prayer to thy God.
Thus shalt thou obtain four cardinal boons, treasures of peace and pleasure, celestial bliss and supernatural powers. Pause.
Shed thou thy self-conceit, fall at the God's feet and hold fast to that Lord's skirt.
The heat of the ocean of fire affects not him who longs for the Lord's protection.
Again and again, the Lord puts up with the millions of sins of the supremely ungrateful ones.
Nanak longs for the protection of that Perfect Lord, the embodiment of mercy.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
By placing Guru's Feet within the mind,
ailments, sorrows and all the agonies are dispelled. And all the sufferings are ended. Pause.
There by the sins of many births are eradicated and one obtains the merit of millions of baths and ablutions at the shrines.
By singing the praise of Lord, the Name's ocean, man's attention is easily fixed on Him.
Showing mercy, the Lord has make me His slave and, snapping my bonds, He has liberated me.
I live By continuously repeating Thy Name and Gurbani. Servant Nanak is a sacrifice unto thee, O Lord.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
O mother, I long to see the Lord's feet.
Show mercy unto me, O my Lord that I may not, ever, forsake them from my mind. Pause.
Applying the dust of saints feet to my face and forehead, I burn up the poison of lust and wrath.
The lowest of all, I deem my ownself and this way I install peace within my mind.
I sing the praise of the Imperishable Lord and shake off all my sins.
Gather I the gift of the Name treasure, O Nanak. I hug it to my bosom and clasp it to my heart.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
My Venerable Lord, I long to see Thine sight.
Day and night I cherish the idea of Thy beauteous vision. Thou art dearer to me even than my soul and life. Pause.
I have looked into and reflected upon the reality of the Shashtras, the Vedas, the Puranas and the Simirtis.
The Perfect Master, the friends of the meek and the Lord, of life, ferries across the terrible world ocean.
From the very prime and beginning of ages, the holy men are Thine attendants, O Lord and Thou art their support in the midst of mammon.
Nanak, ever longs for the dust of the feet of such persons and the Lord is the Giver of this boon.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
Thy servant, O Lord, is intoxicated with Thy elixir.
He, who obtains the treasure of the Nectar of love, forsakes it not to go elsewhere. Pause.
Seated he repeats God's Name, sleeping he repeat God's Name and God's Nectar, he takes for his food.
Bathing in the dust of saints feet is equal to the ablutions at sixty eight shrines.
Profitable is the birth and advent of God, slave, who has make the Creator, the Father of good children.
Nanak, he who recognise the Omnipresent Lord takes all with him and saves everyone.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
O my mother, without the Guru, Divine knowledge is not obtained.
The mortal wander, bewailing in various ways, but the Lord of the world meets them not. Pause.
With worldly love, disease and sorrow, man's body is tied; so he is goaded into many existences.
Without the saints' society, he is not allowed to stay anywhere Before whom may he go and weep?
When my Master is in mercy, man enshrines affection for the saints feet.
His dreadful distresses are dispelled in a moment, O Nanak, and he merges into God's vision.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
The Lord Himself has become merciful.
I am emancipated and have become and embodiment of bliss. I, the Lord's child, have been saved. Pause.
Joining both the hands, I make supplication and, within my mind, I meditate on the Transcendent Lord.
Giving His hand the supreme Lord has saved me and eradicated all my sins.
The husband and wife join in rejoicing and singing victory to the Lord.
Says Nanak, I am sacrifice unto the Lord slave who emancipates one and all.
There is but One God. by True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
I make a supplication to my True Guru.
Lord, the Destroyer of distress, has become kind and compassionate and my anxieties are all over. Pause.
I am sinful, hypocritical and greedy and He puts up with all my virtues and vices.
The Lord has created me and, placing His hand on my brow, has exalted me. The sinners who wanted to destroy me are themselves destroyed.
My Guru, is the philanthropist, the beautifier of all and the embodiment of peace, whose very vision is fruitful.
He is the benefactor of the meritless and His lotus feet I place within my mind, says Nanak.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
My Lord is the Master of the Masterless.
I have sought the protection of the Saviour of all. Pause.
Protect me on all fronts, O Lord, the enemy of ego;
protect me in the future, in the past and at the last moment.
Whenever I think, then I think of Thine virtues.
Reflecting over them, my soul is sanctified.
I hear and sing to Guru's hymns.
I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto sight of the Saint Guru.
Within my mind I have the prop of the Lord alone.
Nanak, my Master is the Creator of all.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
O Lord, this alone is my heart's desire.
O the treasure of kindness, my merciful Master, make me the slave of Thine saints. Pause.
In the early morn, I fall at the feet of Lord's slaves and night and day have their vision.
Surrendering my body and soul, I serve Lord's servant, and with my tongue I sing God's praise.
At every breath, I remember my Lord and I, ever, abide in the society of saints.
God's Name is my sole support and wealth. From it alone, Nanak obtain delight.
Rag Dev Gandhari. 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O friend, such an honourable Lord, have I obtained.
He leaves me not and ever keeps my company. Meeting the Guru, night and day I hymn His praise. Pause.
I have met the Fascinating Lord, who blesses me with all the comforts and leaving me he goes not anywhere.
I have seen men of various and many types, but they equal not even an hair of my Spouse.
Illustrious is Lord's palace and beauteous His gate, wherein rings the melodious celestial strain.
Says Nanak, I ever enjoy bliss as I have attained as ever stable abode in my Beloved's Home.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
My soul long for God's vision and Name.
O wandering through all the places, now I have come to follow the Saints Guru. Pause.
Whom should I serve and whom should I contemplate, as whosoever is seen, he shall go away?
I have sought the refuge of the saints society and my mind longs for the dust of their feet.
I know not the way, nor do I have any virtue. It is very difficult to escape from mammon.
Nanak has come and fallen at the Guru's Feet, and then, all his evil-desires are annulled.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
My Beloved, ambrosial are Thine words.
Very beauteous Enticer Thou art, O Beloved. Thou art midst all and yet distinct. Pause.
I desire not empire and I desire not salvation, my soul longs for the love of Thine lotus feet.
There are Brahma, Shiv, adepts, sages and Indar, but I desire the Lord's vision alone.
O Lord, I have come helpless to Thy door, and having grown weary, have entered the asylum of Thine saints.
Says Nanak, I have met the beauteous Lord and my soul is cooled and happy.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
By remembering the Lord His servant swims across.
When the Lord becomes merciful unto His meek servant, he is not born, again to die. Pause.
In the saint society, he hymns God's praise and loses not his gem-like human life.
Singing the Lord's he crosses the ocean of poison and saves his entire lineage as well.
Lord's lotus feet abide within his mind, and with his every breath and morsel, he repeats Lord's Name.
Nanak has grasped the protection of the Lord of the universe and he is again, and again, a sacrifice unto Him.
Rag Dev Gandhari. 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Wearing religious garbs, men wander in woods, but the Beauteous Lord remains unattached. Pause.
They discourse, preach and sin good songs, but in their mind exists the filth of sins.
It is easy to be very beauteous exceedingly shrewd, wise educated and of sweet speech.
To forsake pride, worldly love, my-ness and thy-ness; is a path on the edge of a double edged sword.
Says Nanak they alone swim across the dreadful world ocean, who by Lord's grace, meet the society of saints.
Rag Dev Gandhari. 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O I have seen the Lord to be high, The Bewitching Master is the highest of all.
No one else is equal to Him and I have made a great search. Pause.
Utterly infinite, exceedingly great, deep and unfathomable is He, He is lofty beyond reach.
He is unweighable by weight and invaluable by worth. How can the mind-enticer be attained?
Millions search Him through various paths, but without the Guru, none finds Him.
Says Nanak, the Lord has been merciful and meeting the saint-Guru, I quaff His elixir.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
O I have seen in many ways, there is not another like the Lord.
In all the regions and islands. He is contained and fully pervading is He in all the worlds. Pause.
The remotest of the remote is He, Who can utter His praise? My soul lives by hearing of Him tidings.
By serving Thee. O Lord, the mortals of the four religious orders and four casts are emancipated.
The Guru has implanted in me his instruction and I have attained the supreme status. My duality is dispelled and I have procured peace.
Says Nanak, by obtaining the treasure of God's Name, I have easily crossed the terrible world ocean.
Rag Dev Gandhari. 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O man, know that there is One and only One God.
Know him to be One, through the Guru's instruction. Pause.
Why wander? wander thou not, O Brother. The Lord is contained in all the places.
As the fire in the wood cannot serve the purpose without an effort,
similarly without the Guru, the reverend Lord's door cannot be attained to.
Meeting the society of saints shed thou thy ego, O man, Like this, says Nanak, the supreme treasure is obtained.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
His condition cannot be known. Pause.
How can I see Him by exercising cleverness? The narrators of His account are taken by surprise.
The God's servants, celestial singers, perfect persons and strivers,
pious persons, gods, Brahma, and others like Brahma,
and the four Vedas proclaim, day and night,
that the Lord is Inaccessible, Unapproachable and Unfathomable.
Says Nanak, numberless are the merits of the Infinite Lord. They cannot be described, as they are thoroughly beyond reach.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
I remember and hymn the Creator alone.
By remember that Infinite Lord, man become fear - free and obtains peace, poise and pleasure. Pause.
The accredited personality of the Guru, has placed his hand on my forehead.
Wherever I look, thither I find Him with me.
Lord's lotus feet are the support of my very life.
Omnipotent, Unfathomable and exalted is my Lord.
The Master abides in every heart and is very near.
Nanak has sought the protection and prop of that Lord, of whom there is no limit and this or that and.
Dev Gandhari 5th Guru.
Turn away O my soul, turn away.
O turn away from the apostate.
O false is the love of the false one Abandon it, O my soul and thou shalt be saved. in the company of the mammon worshiper, thou shalt not be delivered. Pause.
As one who enters a house filled with soot, becomes black, so is the man who associates with an apostate.
He who meets the Guru, escapes from the bondage of three qualities. He flees from evil association from a distance.
O Merciful Lord, the Ocean of mercy, I crave this boon of Thee, not to bring me face to face with the mammon-worshiper.
Make servant Nanak an attendant of Thy attendant, O Lord. may his head role under the saints feet.
Rag Dev Gandhari. 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O Lord, the way-pointer of mine, Thou art powerful for all times. I am ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Thine saints sing Thee with love and I fall at their feet. Pause.
O my Master, worthy of praise, Enjoyer of blissful plays and embodiment of mercy, and yet Infinite, very beauteous is Thy seat.
Prosperity, supernatural powers and wealth are at the palm of Thy hand. O Lord, the life of the world and the master of all Infinite are Thine Names.
O Lord, show kindness compassion and mercy unto hearing Thy praise.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Rag Dev Gandhari. 9th Guru.
This mind does not a particle of my bidding.
On My part I have grown weary of giving instruction to it, but it abstains not from mal-inclinations. Pause.
It has gone mad with the Intoxication of wealth and utters not God's praise.
By exercising fraud it hood winks the world and fills its belly.
Like a dog's tail it becomes not straight and lends not its ear to what I tell it.
Says Nanak, ever utter thou the Lord's Name wherewith thy affair shall be adjusted.
Dev Gandhari 9th Guru.
All thine worldly affairs are only for life.
Thy mother, father, brother, sons, kinsmen and then the wife of thy home, cry out. Pause.
And call thee a ghost, when the soul gets separated from the body.
No body keeps thee even for halt and hour and they expel thee from the house.
Like an optical illusion is the structure of the world. See and reflect over it in thy mind.
Says Nanak, ever repeat thou the Name of God, by which deliverance is attained.
Dev Gandhari 9th Guru.
In this world, I have seen the love to be false.
Every, whether wife whether friend is intent on his own happiness. Pause.
All say "Thou art mine, mine and attach their mind to thee with love".
At the last moment, none becomes an companion of thine. This is a strange custom.
The stupid man, as yet, reforms himself not, though I have grown weary of ever instructing him.
Nanak, if mortal sings songs of Lord's praise, he crosses over the terrible world-ocean.
There is but One God. True is His Name and Creative and All-pervading His personality He is without fear, without fear, without enmity, Immortal in From, beyond birth and self-illumined. By Guru's grace He is obtained.
Rag Bihagra Chaupade 5th Guru.
To associate with the arch adversaries,
is to abide with the vipers,
I made various efforts to shake them off.
Then I repeated God's Name,
wherefore I obtain peace and poise. Pause.
False is the love of,
the various types of worldly attachments
which entangle man in the whirlpool of transmigration.
All the mortals are the way-farers,
who have gathered under the world tree,
and are tied down to manifold bounds.
Eternal is the saints congregation,
wherein God's praises are hymned.
Nanak has, therefore, sought its protection.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Rag Bihagra 9th Guru.
No one knows the state of the Lord.
The renunciators, celibates, penitents and good many wise men have utterly failed. Pause.
In a trice, He makes a pauper a king, and a king a pauper.
What is empty He fills, and what is full He empties, Such are His ways.
His mammon, He Himself has spread and He Himself is the Beholder thereof.
He assumes many forms and plays many sports, yet he remains distinct from all.
Incomputable, lllimitable, Incomprehensible and Immaculate is the Lord who has lured away the whole world.
Says Nanak, O mortal, lay aside thou all thy doubts and fix thy mind on His feet.
Rag Bihagra Chhant. 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my soul, meditate thou on the Name of the Lord master. The invaluable Name is obtained. through the Guru.
My Mind is pierced through with God's name elixir; God is dear unto my mind. With God's Name Nectar the mind is washed clean.
O my soul, By Guru's instruction hold thy mind and it shall not wander to any other place again.
He who utters the praise worthy hymns of the God Lord, O Nanak, obtains the fruit his heart desires.
O My soul, by Guru's instruction, the Name Nectar abides within man's mind and he, then, with his mouth, utters nectar-sweet words.
Nectar-sweet are the hymns of the saintly persons, O my soul, By heartily hearing them, one comes to embrace affection for the Lord.
I have obtained the Lord God, since long-separated from me and He has, naturally, hugged me to His bosom.
Servant Nanak's mind is in bliss, O my soul, and the celestial strain rings within him.
O my Soul, let my comrades and friends come and unite me with my Lord Master.
I surrender my mind unto him, O my soul, who recites to me, the Divine discourse of the Lord God.
Through the Guru, ever contemplate thou on God, O my soul, and thou shalt attain the boons of thy heart's desire.
Says Nanak, hasten thou to seek Lord's protection, O my soul, as only the very fortunate ones meditate on the Master's Name.
O my soul, in His mercy the Lord comes and meets the mortal and through Guru's teaching reveals His Name unto him.
Without God, I am as crest-fallen O my soul, as the lotus is sad without water.
The Perfect Guru, has united me with Lord God, the Friend, O my soul.
Blest! blest is the Guru, O my soul who has shown me the Lord, with whose Name, slave Nanak has blossomed forth.
Rag Bihagra 4th Guru.
Nectar is the name of the Lord God, O my soul. By Guru's instruction the Name-Nectar is attained.
Poisonous is the pride of worldly valuables, O My soul. Through the God's Name - Nectar this poison is eliminated.
Meditating on the Lord Master's Name, O my soul, this dried up frame is reverdured.
The Lord by His writ has make my destiny great, O my soul and slave Nanak has merged in the Name.
My mind is attached to the Lord, O my soul, as the milk-sucking child is to the milk.
Without God, I obtain not peace O my soul, as the pied-cuckoo cries without the rain drops.
Go and seek the shelter of the True Guru, O my soul, and he shall tell thee the merits of the Lord God.
Servant Nanak, the Lord has united with Himself, O my soul and on that account, many songs of Bliss ring in his heart.
Self-conceit has separated the way-ward from the Lord and has bound them to poisonous sins. They are being burnt by the sense of ego, O My soul.
As a bird, like a pigeon, of himself falls into a net, O my soul, similarly all the self-willed come under the spell of death.
Faithless, foolish and devilish are the mortals, O my soil, who fix their mind on worldly love and wealth.
Lord's slaves, beseeching and imploring, enter His sanctuary, O my soul and Divine Guru Nanak becomes their Saviour.
God's men are delivered through God's love, O my soul and through the primal greatest Good luck, they attain to their Lord.
The Lord God's Name is the ship, O my life, and Guru, the steersman, by his sermon, ferries the man across.
Compassionate is the Omnipotent Lord Master, O my soul and by the Great True Guru's grace, He seems sweet unto the man.
My Lord God, shower Thy benediction, hear slave Nanak's supplication and cause him to dwell on Thy Name.
Bihagra 4th Guru.
O my soul, in this world, the hymning of the praise of God's Name is a good avocation and through the Lord's praise, the Lord is enshrined in the mind.
Immaculate is the Lord Master's Name, O my soul and by meditating on the Name of the Lord Master the mortal is delivered.
All the sins, misdeeds and pains are effaced. O my soul, and through the Name the Exalted Guru removes the filth.
By Great good fortune, servant Nanak has contemplated over the Lord and He has saved the fools and idiots like me.
Those, who meditate on God's Name, O my soul, over-power their five evil desires.
Within, are the Name's nine treasures. O my soul, and the great True Guru shows the unperceivable Lord.
The Guru has fulfilled my hopes and yearning, O my soul and by meeting God, all the hunger of mine is satiated.
Says slave Nanak, he alone sings God's praise, O my soul, on whose brow it is so written by the Lord God, since the very beginning.
O my soul, I am a sinner deceiver, cheat and the plunderer of other's wealth.
By good fortune, I have obtained the Guru, O my soul, and through the Perfect Guru I have found the way to salvation.
The Guru has poured God's elixir into my mouth, O my life, and then, my dead soul has come to life again.
Says serf Nanak, those who meet with the True Guru, O my soul, all their woes are dispelled.
Supremely sublime is the God's Name, by remembering which the sins are washed off, O my soul.
The Guru-God has make the sinners, pure, O my soul, and they are renowned in four directions and the four yugas.
The filth of self-conceit is all wiped off, O my soul, by bathing in the tank of God's Name Nectar.
Says servant Nanak, the offenders and sinner cross over, O my life by being imbued with God even for an instant.
Bihagra 4th Guru.
O my soul, I am a sacrifice unto those, who have the support of the Name of the Lord Master.
The Great Satguru has implanted the Name, within me, O my soul, and it has ferried me across the world's terrible ocean of poison.
They, who have single-mindedly remembered God, O my soul, I acclaim the victory of those holy men.
O my soul, Nanak has obtained peace by meditating over God, who is the Destroyer of all distress.
Blessed! blessed! is the tongue O my soul, which sings the praise of the Lord Master.
Sublime and splendid are the ears, O my soul, which hear the singing of the praise of the Lord God.
Sublime pure and pious is the head, O my soul, which goes and falls at the Guru's feet.
O my soul, Nanak is a sacrifice unto the Guru, who has brought Lord God's Name into his mind.
Auspicious and approved are the eyes, O my soul, which see the saintly True Guru.
O my soul, sacred and sanctified are those hands, which write down the Lord's praise and the Lord's Name.
I ever adore the feet of that person, O my soul, who walks on to the way of righteousness.
Nanak is a sacrifice unto those, O my soul, who hear of God and believe in God's Name.
The earth, nether-world and firmament, O my soul, all meditate on the Lord master's Name.
The wind, the water and the fire, O my soul, ever hymn the praise of Lord God, the Master.
The woods, the grass blades and the whole world, O my soul, utter with their mouth the Lord Master's Name.
Nanak, he who fixes his mind, through the Guru, on Lord's devotional service, O my soul, is robed in the God's court.
Bihagra 4th Guru.
They, who remember not the Name of the Lord Master, O my soul, are perverse, stupid and ignorant.
They who attach their mind to temporal love and worldly valuables, O my soul, regretfully depart in the end.
The perverse persons, who are deluded by sin, O my soul, find no place of rest in God's court.
Says slave Nanak, they who meet the Guru and meditate over God, are saved, O my soul, and are absorbed in God's Name.
Go ye all and meet the True Guru, O my soul, who fixes the Lord God's Name in the heart.
Make not a moment's delay in contemplating over God, O my soul, as who knows whether mortal shall draw or draw not another breath?
That time, that instant, that moment and that trice are profitable, O my soul, when my God comes into my mind.
Attendant Nanak has meditated on the Lord's name, O my soul and now, the death's myrmidon draws not near him.
God ever beholds and hears everything, O my soul and he alone is afraid who commits sins.
The man, whose heart is pure from within him, O my soul, casts off all his fears.
All the villains and contendents prate in vain against him, O my soul, who has faith in the Lord's fearless Name.
Nanak has served his Perfect Guru O my soul, who has made all men to fall at his feet.
Ever serve thou such God, O my soul! who is the great Lord so all.
They who single-mindedly meditate on one God, O my soul, bear not subservience to anyone.
By serving the Guru, God's mansion I have attained, O my soul, and all the slanderers and mischief-makers bark but in vain.
Slave Nanak has meditated on the Name, O my soul, which the Lord had writ on his fore-head since the very beginning.
Bihagra 4th Guru.
All the beings are Thine and Thou art contained in them and Thou knowest what they do in their mind, O Lord God.
Within and without, God is with the man, O my soul, and He beholds everything; but the man denies the Lord in his mind.
God is far away from the self-willed persons, O my mind and all their toils go in vain.
Slave Nanak has meditated over God, O my soul, through the Guru and he sees Lord's presence all over.
They alone are the devotees and they alone the servants, O my mind, who are pleasing to my Lord's mind.
They are robed in God's court O my mind and day and night remain absorbed in the true Lord.
In their company the filth of sins is washed off, O my soul and one is imbued with the Lord's love and comes to bear the mark of Master's grace.
Nanak Makes a supplication before his Lord, O my mind, that meeting the saints guild, he may remain sated.
O My soul, O my tongue, meditate thou on the World-Lord, that by remembering the Lord God thy worldly desires be extinguished.
He, to whom my Transcendent Lord shows mercy, O my soul, in his mind, He enshrines His Name.
He, who meets the Perfect True Guru, O my soul, obtains the treasure of God's wealth.
Nanak, through the great good fortune, the society of saints is obtained, O my soul, wherein God's praises are sung.
In all the places and inter-spaces the Supreme Lord and the Beneficent Master prevails, O my soul.
His limits cannot be known, O my soul. He is All-perfection, and All-pervading and arbiter of destiny.
O my soul, the Lord cherishes all the beings as do father and mother their child.
By thousands of clevernesses He is attained not, O my soul. Slave Nanak has known his Lord through the Guru.
Bihagra, 5th Guru.
There is but One God, By True Guru grace He is obtained.
I have seen one miracle of God, O my beloved. Whatever he does that is righteous and just.
God has made this world as a beautiful arena, O my venerable beloved, where all the mortals continue coming and going.
He, who created the world, has destined the mortals coming and going.
Some, who meet the True Guru, God invites to His mansion and some wander astray in doubt.
Thy limit Thou alone knowest, O Lord and Thou art contained amongst all.
Nanak tells the truth, listen O ye saints that God dispenses evenhanded justice.
Come and meet me, O mates, my venerable beloveds and let us meditate on Lord God's Name.
Let us perform the Perfect True Guru's service, O my beloveds and smoothen the way of death.
Having smoothed the arduous road, through the Guru, we shall attain honour in the God's court.
They whom the Creator has so pre-ordained, fix their attention on the Lord night and day.
Self-conceit egoism and worldly love depart, when man meets the society of saints.
Says servant Nanak, the mortal is emancipated by contemplating over the Lord Master's Name.
O saints, my venerable beloveds, let us get together and with-joined hands, adore the Imperishable Omnipotent Lord.
(In vain) did I seek Him through adorations of many kinds. Let us now offer all this mind and body to the Lord, O my beloved.
The mind, body and wealth all belongs to the Lord. What can anyone offer to Him in worship?
He alone merges into the Lord's lap, unto whom the Merciful Master becomes compassionate.
He, on whose brow such destiny is write, comes to bear love with the Guru.
Says Slave Nanak, joining the saints society, let us worship the Lord God's Name.
I have been searching in ten directions, O my honourable beloved, but have found God in my heart home on return.
The reverend Lord has made this body palace, O my beloved, and there in the Lord continues to abide.
The Lord abides in all and through the Guru, He manifests Himself.
When the Guru trickles the essence of God's Nectar into man's mouth, his darkness is dispelled and troubles removed.
Wither-so-ever I look thither I find the Lord. The Transcendent Lord is pervading everywhere.
Says slave Nanak, the True Guru has united me with God, and I have found Him on returning to mind's home.
Rag Bihagra 5th Guru.
The fascinating Lord, ornament of soul and the support of life is supremely dear unto me.
Beautiful is the glory of the merciful and beloved Master who is beyond limit and comprehension.
O Thou the compassionate and beloved Lord Master, O my Spouse, meet Thou Thy meek bride.
Mine eyes long for seeing Thy sight. The night rolls on, but I can sleep not.
I have applied the collyrium of gnosis to my eyes and have made God's Name my victual Thus are all my decorations done.
Says Nanak, that he remembers and supplicates the Saint-Guru, to unite him with his Spouse.
I have to bear lacs of reproaches till my Lord Master meets me not.
I make efforts to meet my God, but no effort of mine is effective.
Unsteady is the mind and unstable the wealth, Without my dear Lord, in no way am I consoled.
Vain are the articles, of food, drink and decoration. How can I live without God, my Spouse?
Night and day I crave and thirst for Him, I can live not without Him even for a moment.
Says Nanak, O my Saint-Guru, I am a serf of thine. By thy grace alone can I meet my Beloved.
I have one common bed with my Groom, but I behold not His sight.
In me are countless demerits, How can my Lord spouse call me into His presence?
The virtueless, unhonoured and orphan bride supplicates. Thee Meet me O Lord, the Treasure of mercy.
By seeing, even for a moment, the Lord of nine treasures, my wall of scepticism is shattered and I sleep in peace.
If my dear Lord comes into my home and dwells there, I, in His company shall sing songs of joy.
Says Nanak, I have sought the saint Guru's protection, O Lord, show me Thy vision.
By the saints grace, I have obtained the Lord God.
My desire is fulfilled my mind is cooled and the fire within me is quenched.
Fruitful is the day, delightful the night and many are the joys, rejoicings and the pleasures,
when the beloved Lord Master becomes manifest. With what tongue can I narrate His excellences?
My doubt, avarice, worldly attachment and wickedness are stilled, and on meeting my mates I sing songs of joy.
Says Nanak, I dwell upon the Saint-Guru, who has effected my union with the Lord God.
Bihagra 5th Guru.
O my Perfect Guru-God, show mercy unto me that night and day, I may utter the Lord's Name.
I utter the ambrosial Gurbani brimful with Thy praise, O God, Thy will seems sweet unto me.
O World Chrisher and the Master of universe, show Kindness and compassion unto me. Without Thee, I have not another.
O my Omnipotent, Ineffable, Infinite and Omnipresent Master, my life, body, wealth and soul are all Thine.
I am foolish, stupid, Masterless, restless, powerless, mean and ignorant.
Supplicates Nanak, I have sought Thy refuge, O Lord Save me from coming and going (transmigration).
In the sanctuary of saints, I have attained the venerable God and ever sing the Lord's praise.
If the dust of the devotees feet be applied to the mind and body, O reverend Lord, all the sinners become pure.
The defaulters get sanctified in the society of those who have met their Creator.
Imbued with the Name, they ever bless mortals with Divine Soul and their gifts increases day by day.
They who meditate on God and conquer their mind, obtain wealth, success and nine treasures.
Prays Nanak, O friend, it is by good destiny that saints, the intimates of God, are obtained.
They alone, who deal in truth O reverend Lord, are the Perfect bankers.
O venerable God, they possess the immense treasure and reap the profit of Lord's praise.
Lust wrath and avarice cling not to the persons, who are imbued with the Lord.
They recognise One, believe in One and are intoxicated with One Lord's love.
They fall at the saint Guru's feet and seek his shelter and within their mind is joy.
Prays Nanak, they alone are the true bankers, who have the Name in their lap.
Meditate thou on that reverend God, O Nanak, who by His might supports all.
In their mind, the pious persons forget not the honourable God. Who is the Mighty Creator and the slayer of Mur demon.
Anguish, disease and fear cling not to them, who contemplate over the Lord Master.
By saints grace they cross the dreadful world ocean and obtain what is pre-ordained for them.
They are felicitated their, mind is pacified and the Infinite Lord meets them.
Supplicates Nanak, by dwelling on the Lord God, my desire is fulfilled.
Bihagra 5th Guru.
There is but One God, True is His Name and by Guru's grace He is obtained.
O peace-giving night, grow long, as I have come to enshrine love with my Beloved.
Be thou short, O pain giving sleep, that I may ever clasp His feet.
I long for the dust of God's feet, and ever beg for His Name, for the love of which I have renounced the world.
Forsaking my supremely evil inclination, I have become imbued with my Beloved's love and am easily intoxicated with it.
I have met my dear Lord on the True Path. He has taken me by my arm and in His love I am saturated.
Nanak implores, Thee, O Lord, to extend to him this favour, that he may remain attached to Thy feet.
O my friends and companions let us remain attached to Lord's feet.
Within my mind is great love for the dear One and pray for God's devotional service.
Let us go and meet the slaves of God and meditate on the Lord Thus shall we obtain God's devotional service.
Let us forsake ego, worldly attachment and sin and dedicate to Him our body, wealth and this soul.
The Lord God is great, Omnipresent and full of merits and on meeting Him the wall of doubt gets dismantled.
Supplicates Nanak, hear my counsel, O my mate and let us ever, ever repeat God's Name.
God's bride is a happy wife and she enjoys all pleasures.
She sits not as a widow as the Lord, her Groom, is long lived.
She suffers not sorrow, meditates on her Lord and blessed and very fortunate is she.
She sleeps in peace and rest, her sins are erased and she wakes in the joy and love of the Name.
In Lord's love she remains absorbed and God's Name is her ornament. The world of the darling Spouse, to her, are sweet and pleasing.
Implores Nanak, I have attained my heart's desire and have met God, my long lived Spouse.
In that house resound songs of rejoicings and millions of pleasures,
wherein in the mind and body of man is contained the Lord of supreme bliss.
God, my Spouse is infinite, merciful, Lord of wealth, Preserver of the universe and the Saviour of sinners.
The Lord God, the Extender of mercy and the enemy of pride, ferries the man across the terrible and poisonous world ocean.
Who so ever seeks the Lord's protection, him He hugs to His bosom. This is quality of the Lord.
Prays Nanak, I have found God, my Spouse, who ever indulges in dalliance with me.
Bihagra 5th Guru.
God's feet are the tank of Nectar and there thou have thy abode O my soul.
Have thou an ablution in God's Name-tank and all thy sins shall be washed off, O my soul.
Bathe thou ever in the Name of Lord, the Friends, and the darkness of thy pain shall be dispelled.
He is delivered from the cycle of birth and death as his noose of death is cut.
Join the society of saints, so that thou be imbued with the Name. There thy desire shall be fulfilled.
Praise Nanak, O God have mercy on me, that I may secure an abode at Thy lotus feet.
There ever is bliss and merry makings and resound there the celestial strain.
Meeting together, the holy men sing Lord's praises and hail victory to the master.
Meeting together, the saints sing Lord's praises, drenched in the Nectar of Him love and affection and become acceptable to their Spouse.
Effacing self-conceit, they attain God's profit and meet the Spouse long separated from them.
The Unique, Inaccessible and Infinite Lord showers His benediction and holding them by the arm makes them His own.
Supplicates Nanak, ever immaculate are they, who hymn the praise of the True Name.
O ye very fortunate one, hearken thou to the immortalising hymns of the Guru-God.
He, in whose destiny it is so write, in his mind alone, it deeply enters.
He alone understands this indescribable story to whom the Lord Himself shows mercy.
He becomes immortal and dies not again and his quarrels, disputes and distresses are dispelled.
He finds the refuge of God, who forsaking Him goes no where. To his mind and body Lord's love is pleasing.
Implores Nanak, O mortal, ever chant thou the immaculate and ambrosial Gurbani.
My mind and body are inebriated with Lord's love. My state cannot be described.
From whom I has issued forth, that Lord has merged me in Himself.
As water blends with water, so am I united with Lord's light, like warp and woof.
The one Lord is contained in sea, land, and sky and I see not another.
He is fully pervading the woods, the grass-blades and the three worlds. His worth, I cannot tell.
Supplicates Nanak, He who has created this creation, Himself knows all about it.
Bihagra 5th Guru.
The saints go about searching for their Lord, who is the prop of their very life.
Without meeting their Beloved Lord, they lose the strength of their body.
O my Beloved Lord, show mercy and unite me with Thee and through Thy kindness attach me a thy skirt.
Bless me with Thy Name so that I may meditate on it, O Lord God. I live by seeing Thy sight.
The Lord is Omnipotent, Omnipresent ever Immovable, Exalted, Unapporachable and Infinite.
Supplicates Nanak, be merciful and meet me Thou, O Lord, dear unto my life.
I have practised worship, penances and fasts to see Thine feet, O Lord.
But the mind's fire is never quenched, without the Lord Master's refuge.
My Master, I seek Thy shelter, cut off my fetters and ferry me across the world ocean.
I am patronless and sans virtue. I know not anything. Think thou not of my merits and demerits.
My Beloved is merciful to the meek, Cherisher of the world, All-powerful and the source of all actions.
Nanak, the pied-cuckoo craves for the drop of God's Name and lives by remembering Lord God's feet.
Quaff thou the Nectar from the Lord's ocean and utter thou the Lord Master's Name.
In the society of saints the Lord is met and by remembering Him, the affairs, are adjusted.
The Master is the Accomplisher of all the works and the Destroyer of anguish. O Thou, in thy mind forget Him not even for a moment.
He is ever happy and ever true and all the merits are in the Lord of the universe.
Inestimable, lofty and lllimitable is the Lord and unapproachable is his Home.
Supplicates Nanak, my desire is fulfilled and I have met Lord, the Lover of excellence.
The hearers and singers of Lord's praise, receive the reward of many millions of sacred feasts.
By meditating over the Lord God's Name all the generations swim across.
By repeating God's Name, beauteous looks the mortal. What praise of his should I narrate?
I forget Thee not, O God. Thou art dear to me as my life. My soul ever longs for Thy vision.
Suspicious is the day, when the lofty, inaccessible and infinite Lord hugs me to His bosom.
Prays Nanak, everything has proved fruitful, as I have met my supremely loved Lord.
Bihagra 5th Guru. Chhant.
Why art thou imbued with the love of another? Dangerous is thy path.
O sinner, none is a friend of thine.
No one shall be thy helper and thou shalt ever regret thine deeds.
With thy tongue thou utterest not the praises of the world cherisher. When shall these days come again.
The soul leaf separated from the body tree unites not with it again and all alone, it proceeds on the way to death.
Supplicates Nanak, without the Name of God, the soul ever wanders in distress.
Thou practise deception in secret. But Lord, the Inner knower knows all.
When the Righteous judge takes thy account, thou shalt be pressed like sesame in an oil-press.
O mortal, thou shalt suffer penalty for the deeds done and shall be goaded into many existences.
Imbued with the love of arch fascinator, thou shalt lose the jewel of human life.
But for the one Name of one God, thou art clever at everything else.
Prays Nanak, they whose destiny is so writ, are attracted to superstition and worldly love.
The ungrateful person is separated from the Lord and none does mediate for him.
All hard-hearted myrmidons of death come and seize him.
They seize and lead him off for his evil deeds, as he was attached to mammon, the great enticer.
He uttered not the praise of the Lord of the world, under Guru's instruction, so his breast is applied to the hot pillars.
By lust, wrath and pride, he is ruined and being deprived of Divine knowledge, he regrets.
Supplicates Nanak, owing to evil destiny, he is gone astray and with his tongue he repeats not God's Name.
Without Thee, O Lord Master, no one is the man's saviour.
To save the defaulters, is Thy characteristic, O Lord God.
O Merciful Master, the saviour of defaulters and the ocean of compassion, I have entered thine sanctuary.
O Creator, the Cherisher of all the hearts, rescue me from the world's blind well.
Seek I Thy shelter, cut away me heavy fetters and give me the prop of Thy Name alone.
Supplicates Nanak, O God, the Master of the universe and merciful to the meek, extend me thy hand and redeem me.
Fruitful is accounted the day, when I attained to God, my Lord Master.
All happiness has appeared and misery has gone far away from me.
Comfort, equanimity, joy and happiness always accrue from ever singing the praise of God, the World Cherisher.
Meeting the saints society, I remember the Lord with love and so I shall not again wander in births.
The Lord has naturally hugged me to His bosom and so the seed of my eternal destiny has sprouted.
Prays Nanak, the Lord of Himself has met me, and He never goes away from me, again.
Bihagra 5th Guru. Chhant.
Hearken Thou to my supplications, O my Lord Master.
I am full of millions of sins, nevertheless I am a slave of Thine.
O Thou Dispeller of grief, bestower of mercy, fascinating and Destroyer of sorrow and strife,
I have entered Thine sanctuary. Preserve Thou me honour. Thou art contained amongst all, O Immaculate Lord.
The Lord hearest and beholdest all. He is with us all and is the nearest of the near.
O Lord, hearken Thou to Nanak's prayer and save the attendant of Thy house hold.
Thou art ever Omnipotent and I am a meek mumper at Thy door, O Lord.
O God, the enemy of pride, save me, I am lost in the love of worldly valuables.
Bound by avarice, worldly love and vice, I have committed many misdeeds.
The Creator is detached from attachments and free from entanglements. The man obtains the fruit of his acts.
Show kindness unto me. O Purifier of defaulters. I have grown weary of wandering through many existences.
Prays Nanak, I am the slave of God and the Lord is the mainstay of my soul and life.
Thou art All-powerful and great My sense of understanding is but paltry, O Lord.
Thou Cherishest even the ungrateful and full of grace is Thine look, O God.
Unfathomable is Thy knowledge O Infinite Creator and I am low and I know nothing.
Reflecting the Name jewel, I have amassed shall. I am a degraded and ignorant brute.
By continually committing sins, I have amassed what is very unstable and forsakes the man.
Nanak has sought Thy protection, O All-powerful Lord. Now preserve thou my honour.
From whom I was separated, He Himself has united me with Him.
Joining the society of saints, I have sung the Lord God's praise.
I have sung the praise of the ever sublime World sustainer and the Blissful Lord is revealed unto me.
My couch is adorned with my Lord's presence and the Lord has make me His own.
Abandoning anxiety, I have become free from anxiety and shall not suffer sorrow again.
Nanak lives by seeing the sight of the World-Lord and singing the praise of the ocean of excellences.
Bihagra 5th Guru. Chhant.
O the sublime man of faith, utter thou the Lord's Name. Why art thou keeping mum?
With thy eyes thou hast seen the treacherous dealings of the world.
Nothing shall go with thee, except the Name of the World-Lord.
The Land, raiment, gold and silver, vain are all these affairs.
Sons, wife, worldly honours, elephants, horses and other pernicious paraphernalia go not with thee.
Supplicates Nanak, without the society of saints the entire world is false.
O king, why art thou fast asleep? why does thou not wake up to reality.
To wail for worldly valuables is useless but many mortals hanker after wealth.
Wailed have many for this great bewitcher, but there is no peace without the Lord's Name.
Thousands of clevernesses and efforts avail not. Withersoever the Lord wills, thither the mortal goes.
In the beginning, end and the middle the Lord is fully pervading, and contained is He in the hearts of all beings.
Pray Nanak, they, who meet the saints society, go to Lord's mansion with honour.
O king, the Master of men, know that the palaces and the wise servants shall serve thee no purpose.
Separate thou must from them their love shall make thee feel sorry.
Beholding the phantom city thou art gone astray. How can thou attain stability therein?
By being absorbed in things other than the Lord's Name, the human life if lost in vain.
By indulging in excessive ego thy thirst is not quenched nor is thy desire fulfilled, nor attainest thou the Divine Knowledge.
Supplicates Nanak, without the Name of God many have departed regretfully.
Showering His benediction, the Lord has made me His own.
Catching me by the arm, God has pulled me out of the mire and blessed me with the saints society.
Meditating on God in the saints society, all my sins and suffering are burnt off.
God's meditation is the highest religion and a good act of charity. That alone shall go with thee.
My tongue utters the Name of the One Lord and my soul and body are drenched with God's Name.
Nanak, whomsoever the Lord unites with Himself, he becomes full of all the virtues.
Var of Bihagra 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Slok 3rd Guru.
By Guru's service, peace is obtained. any where else, search not thou peace.
With the Guru's hymns, the soul is pierced through and the Lord ever abides with the man.
Nanak, they alone obtain the Name, whom the Lord beholds with His comforting and merciful glance.
3rd Guru.
The treasure of God's praise is a gift and He alone expends and utliises it unto whom He bestows.
Without the True Guru. It comes not to hand. All have grown weary of performing rituals.
Nanak, the perverse world is without this wealth and when hungry, what shalt it eat in the next world?
Pauri.
All belong to Thee and belong to all, O Lord It is Thee, who has created all.
Amongst all Thou art contained and all meditate on Thee.
Thou acceptest the devotional service of him, who is pleasing to Thy mind.
Whatever pleases the Lord God, that happens. all do what Thou makest them do.
Praise thou the most exalted Lord, who ever preserves the honour of the pious persons.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Nanak, the divine has conquered the world but the world has conquered all others.
Through the Name his affairs flourish and whatever takes place, that takes place by Lord's will.
Through the Guru's teaching his mind is steadfast and none can shake it.
God takes the side of His devotee and honourable becomes his affair.
The perverse are led astray from the very beginning. Within them is avarice, greed and ego.
Their nights and days pass in wranglings and they reflect not on the Guru's hymns.
The Creator has taken away from them their good understanding, so all their speech is sinful.
However much is given to them, they are not sated. within them is avarice and great darkness of spiritual ignorance.
Nanak, it is good to break with the perverse, to whom the love of mammon is sweet.
3rd Guru.
What can fear and doubt, do unto them, on whose head is the Satguru-Creator?
God, the Preserve, Himself preserve their honour.
Reflecting over the True Name they meet with their Beloved and obtain peace.
Nanak I have served the peace giving Lord, who Himself is the Assayer.
Pauri.
All men and lower animals are Thine and Thou art the capital of all.
He, whom Thou givest, obtains everything. There is no other rival of Thine.
Thou alone art the Beneficent Lord of all. My prayer is to Thee, O Master.
Thou acceptest the prayer of him, with whom Thou art pleased. Blessed is such a person.
Thy wondrous play is manifest everywhere and my weal and woe are before Thee.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The Guru-wards are pleasing to the True Lord and they are adjudged true in the True Court.
In the mind of such friends of God, is bliss and they meditate on Guru's hymns.
They enshrine the Name in their mind. Their pain is dispelled and the Creator blesses them with the Divine Light.
Nanak, blessing them with His mercy the Saviour shall save them.
3rd Guru.
Wait upon and serve thou the Guru and while toiling, abide in Lord's fear.
If thou walkest according to His will, then shalt thou be like him, whom thou servest.
Nanak, the Lord Himself is all in all and there is no other second, place to go to.
Pauri.
My Master, Thine greatness, Thou alone knowest. None else is as great as Thee.
If some rival of Thine be as great as Thou, then, I would Name him, But as lofty as Thee, Thou alone art.
He, who serves Thee, obtains peace. Who else can rival Thee?
My Beneficent Lord, Thou art All-powerful to make and unmake and with joined hands all are standing before Thee to beg.
I see no one so great a Donor as Thou art. Thou givest alms to all the beings of all the continents, solar systems, nether lands, worlds and universes.
Slok 3rd Guru.
If, O man thou hast not faith in the mind, embracest not love for the Lord,
and enjoyest not the Name's relish, What praise of the Master shalt thou sing through forcing thy mind?
Nanak, his advent alone is approved, who by Guru's instruction, merges into the True Lord.
3rd Guru.
The fool understands not his ownself and annoys others by his speech.
The original nature of the foolish leaves him not. Separated from God, he bears blows.
By True Guru's fear, he has not altered and reshaped his disposition, that he may remain merged in the Lord's lap.
Night and day his doubts never cease and without the Lord's Name, he writhes in pain.
Lust, wrath and avarice are very powerful in his mind and his life ever passes in doing worldly affairs.
Tired are his feet, hands, eyes and ears. His days are numbered and his death is near.
The True Name appears not sweet to him, the Name by which the nine treasures are obtained.
If man, in life is dead and so dying lives, again, it is then that he attains salvation.
The mortals is not blessed with Lord's grace and without Lord's grace what can he obtain?
O fool, meditate thou on the Guru's hymns and through Gurbani thou shalt obtain salvation and wisdom.
Nanak, if thou effacest thy self-conceit from within, then alone shalt thou obtain the True Guru.
Pauri.
Why should he, within whose mind abides my Lord feel anxiety regarding anything?
God is the giver of the peace and the Lord of all the things. From His meditation, why should we turn our away, even for a moment and trice?
He, who remembers God obtains all the comforts. We should daily go, sit and associate with the society of the pious persons.
All woes, privations and diseases of God's slave are eradicated and bonds of the saints are torn asunder.
By God's grace, one becomes God's devotee. The entire world ought to be saved by seeing the face of the Lord's pious person.
Slok, 3rd Guru.
May that tongue be burnt, which has not received the relish of Lord's name.
Nanak, the tongue of him, who enshrines the Lord God in his mind, enjoys the taste of the Name.
3rd Guru.
Burnt be the tongue, which has forgotten the Name of God.
Nanak, the tongue of the Guru-ware utters the Lord's Name and professes love for His Name.
Pauri.
God Himself is the Lord, an attendant and a devotee. God Himself does and causes others to do.
God Himself beholds and Himself rejoices. As He wills, so does He engage the mortals in their tasks.
Some the Lord Himself puts on the right path and some the Lord leads astray into the wilderness.
God is the True Lord and true is His justice. He arranges and beholds all His plays.
By Guru's grace, serf Nanak utters and sings the praise of the True Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Rare is the one who understands saintliness, and there are but few saints.
Accursed is the life and accursed his garb, who wanders about begging from houses to house.
If he abandons hope and anxiety and receives the Name as his alms, through the Guru,
Nanak washes his feet and is a sacrifice unto him.
3rd Guru.
Nanak, thou world-tree bears the fruit of love for mammon and upon it perch two birds (Guru-ward and self-ward persons.)
These birds have no wings and are not seen while coming and going.
The self ward enjoys the pleasures, while the other remain detached through the word of the Guru.
Imbued with the Nectar of the fruit of God's Name, the soul bears the true mark of God's grace, O Nanak.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself is the field, Himself the farmer and Himself He, grows and grinds the corn.
Himself He cooks and Himself He gives dishes and puts food in them and He Himself sits down to eat it.
Himself is He the water, Himself He gives the tooth-pick and Himself He offers water for gargling.
He Himself calls and seats the congregation and Himself sees it off.
He, to whom the Lord Himself becomes merciful, him, He causes to walk in His will.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The religious ceremonies are all entanglements and the bad and the good are bound up with them.
The toils for the sake of children and wife, done through egoism and worldly attachment, are but fetters.
Where-so-ever I see, there I behold the noose of worldly attachment.
Nanak, without the True Name, the world is engrossed is blind dealings.
4th Guru.
Then alone the blind mortal receives the Divine Light, , if he blends with the True Guru's will.
He then breaks off his bonds, abides in truth and his darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
He sees that everything belongs to Him, who created him and fashioned his body.
Nanak has sought the refuge of the Maker and the Creator alone preserves his honour.
Pauri.
Sitting, all by Himself, when the Creator created the creation, then He consulted not another slave of His.
Then what can any one take and what can any one give, when He created not any other like Himself?
Then, after manifesting the creation, the Creator Himself blessed all with His bounties.
He Himself, through the Guru, instructs us in His service and Himself gives the Name-Nectar to drink.
The Formless Lord Himself manifests Himself in from and what He Himself does, that comes to pass.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The Guru-ward ever serve their True Lord and night and day remain absorbed in Lord's love.
Ever in bliss they hymn the True one's praise and in this word and the world-beyond Keep Him clasped to their hearts.
Within their mind abides the Beloved and their this destiny was pre-ordained by the Creator.
O Nanak, Himself showing mercy, the Lord blends them with Himself.
3rd Guru.
Merely by saying and narrating, the Lord is attained not. Night and day one ought ever to sing His praise.
Without His grace the Lord is obtained not and, devoid of it, barking and bewailing, the men have died.
When man's mind and body are saturated with Guru's hymns, the Lord Himself comes and abides in his mind.
Nanak, by Lord's grace, the Lord is obtained and He unites man with Himself.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself is Vedas, Puranas and all the Shashtras, Himself He utters them and Himself is He pleased.
Himself the Creator sits down to worship and Himself creator the world.
He Himself is a house-holder and Himself a Renouncer. Himself He utters the unutterable.
God Himself is all the virtue and Himself makes men do virtuous deeds. Himself He remains all-aloof.
Himself the creator grants weal and woe and Himself He bestows gifts.
Slok 3rd Guru.
O Shaikh, abandon thy mind's violence, abide in Lord's fear and shed thy madness.
Through the Guru's fear, many have been saved. Abiding in fear, obtain thou the Fearless Lord.
Pierce thy stone heart with the Lord's Name, so that peace may come to abide in thy mind.
The virtuous deeds done with peaceful mind are approved by the spouse.
Nanak, by lust and wrath, none has ever attained God. Go and ask any divine.
3rd Guru.
An apostate loves wealth and enshrines not affection for the Name.
He practises falsehood, amasses falsehood, and falsehood he makes his sustenance.
He amasses the poisonous worldly wealth and dies. This wealth in the end, is all reduced to ashes.
He, practises religious deeds, purity and self-mortification, but in his mind are greed and sin.
Nanak whatever the way ward person does, that becomes not acceptable and he is dishonoured in Lord's court.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself created the four sources of creation, Himself the power of speech and Himself the worlds and solar systems.
He Himself is the ocean, Himself the sea and Himself puts pearls therein.
He, whom, God makes a pious person, him He Himself mercifully enables to find these pearls.
Himself is He the terrible ocean, Himself the ship, Himself the helmsman and Himself He ferries across.
The Creator Himself does and causes others to do. None else can equal Thee, O Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Fruitful is the service of the True Guru, if someone does it with a devoted mind.
Through it the Name's wealth is obtained and the Lord spontaneously comes to abide in man's mind.
The pain of birth and death is eradicated and one is rid of egotism and egoism.
He attains to the supreme status and remains absorbed in the True Lord.
Nanak, the True Guru comes and meets those, who are so pre-destined.
3rd Guru.
The True Guru is imbued with the Name and He is the ship in this Dark Age.
He, who becomes Guru-ward and within whom abides He, the True Lord, crosses the world ocean.
He remembers the Name, amasses the Name and attains honour from the Name.
Nanak has found the True Guru and by his grace has obtained the Lord's Name.
Pauri.
God Himself is the philosopher's stone, Himself the metal and Himself He transforms it into gold.
Himself is He the Lord, Himself an attendant and Himself is He the Destroyer of sins.
Himself the Lord enjoys all the heart and Himself is He the embodiment of all illusion.
He Himself is the Discerner, Himself the knower of all of and Himself He breaks the bonds of the holymen.
Slave Nanak is not satiated by praising Thee, O God, the Creator. Thou art the great Bestower of bliss.
Slok 4th Guru.
Without the True Guru's service, all the deeds, which one does are chains for the soul.
Sans serving the True Guru, man finds no place of rest. He dies to be born again and continues coming and going.
Sans service the True Guru, one talks insipidly and the Name is enshrined not in his mind.
Nanak, without the service of the True Guru, the mortals depart with the blackened faces and after being bound down are beaten in the city of death.
3rd Guru.
Some there is who wait upon and serve the True Guru, They, come to embrace love for God's Name.
Nanak, they reform their own life and save their generations as well.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself is the school, Himself the teacher and Himself brings the pupils to be coached.
He Himself is the Father, Himself the Mother and Himself He makes the children wise.
In one place He Himself enables people to read and understand everything in another place Himself He makes them puerile.
Some, when they become pleasing to Thy mind, O True Lord, thou callest within Thine mansion.
The man, whom Thou blesseth with greatness, through the Guru, are renowned in Thy True court O Lord.
Slok Mardana.
The Dark age is the vessel filled with the wine of lust and the mind is the tippler.
Wrath is the cup, filled Wrath is the cup, filled with worldly love and pride is the server.
Through excessive drinking in the company of falsehood and avarice the mortal is ruined.
Let good deeds be thy still, truth thy molasses and therewith make thou the sublime wine of the True Name.
Make virtue thy thin loaves civility thy clarified butter and modesty thy meat to eat.
Such delicacies, O Nanak, are obtained through the Guru, by partaking which, the sins depart.
Mardana.
The human body is the vat, self conceit the wine and the society is of the mammonish desires.
The cup of mind's longings is full to brim with falsehood and Death's courier is the cup-bearer.
By drinking this wine, O Nanak, the mortal earns multiple sins.
Make gnosis thy molasses, praise of God thy bread and the Lord's fear thy meat to eat.
Nanak, this is the true (spiritual) food, whereby the True Name shall become thy prop.
If body be the vat and self-realisation the wine, then the Name-Nectar becomes the stream thereof.
By meeting with the saints society, the cup of Lord's love is filled with the Name-Nectar. By drinking it continually the sins are blotted out.
Pauri.
Himself the Lord is the good man, heavenly herald and the celestial singer and Himself the utterer of the six schools of philosophy.
The Lord Himself is the god of creation, the god of death and the god the nutrition. Through the Guru, He Himself narrates the unnarratable story.
He Himself is the renunciator, Himself and enjoyer and Himself, becoming a solitarian, wanders about in wildernesses.
The Lord discourses with himself, Himself He instructs and Himself is discreet, graceful and wise.
Staging His Play, He Himself beholds it. The Lord Himself is the knower of all the creatures.
Slok 3rd Guru.
This vesper prayer, which recalls my Lord God to my mind, is acceptable.
It produces attachment with God and burns off the love of mammon.
By Guru's grace, duality is smothered, the mind becomes stable and man makes Lord meditation his twilight prayer.
Nanak, while reciting the evening prayer the mind of the perverse is not fully engaged in it and they are ruined in transmigration.
3rd Guru.
I wandered through the whole world calling out Love, my Love, but my thirst is quenched not.
On meeting the True Guru, my desire is sated, O Nanak, and I have found my Beloved in my home, on return.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself is the essence and all by Himself is the supreme essence. Himself is He the Lord and the slave.
Himself has He created the people of the eighteen castes, and the Exalted Lord, Himself has acquired His domain.
Himself He destroys, Himself He redeems and by His grace, Himself He pardons.
He is infallible and strays never. Thoroughly even is the True Lord's justice.
Whom the Lord Himself instructs through the Guru, from within them duality and doubt depart.
Slok 5th Guru.
The body, which meditates not on the God's Name in the saints' congregation, disintegrates like the dust.
Accursed and insipid is the body, O Nanak, which knows not Him, who created it.
5th Guru.
Enshrine within thy mind the Lord's lotus feet and with thy tongue repeat the Lord's Name.
Contemplate over that Lord, O Nanak, and nurture this body of thine.
Pauri.
The Creator Himself is the sixty eight holy places and Himself takes bath therein.
Himself the Lord practises abstinence and Himself makes men repeat His Name.
The Destroyer of fear Himself becomes merciful and Himself He gives alms to all.
He, whom he Himself enlightens, through the Guru, ever obtains honour in his court.
He, whose honour the Lord God preserves, realises the True God.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Nanak, sans meeting with the True Guru, the world is blind and does blind deeds.
It fixes not its attention on Guru's word, whereby peace comes to abide in the mind.
Inflicted ever with wrath the world wanders about and burning therein its passes its days and nights.
Whatever pleases Him, that comes to pass. No one has any say, therein.
3rd Guru.
The True Guru has commanded me to do this task.
Through the Guru, meditate thou on thy Lord.
The Lord is ever present. Tearing off the veil of doubt, He shall place His light within thy mind.
God's Name is Nectar. Avail this health promoting elixir.
True Guru's will, enshrine thou in thy mind and make True Lord's love thy self-abstinence.
Nanak, here the True Guru shall keep thee in peace and hereafter thou shalt make merry with God.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself is the eighteen loads of vegetation and Himself makes it bear fruits.
Himself is He the gardner Himself irrigates all the plants and Himself puts their fruit in the mouth.
Himself is he the Maker and Himself the Enjoyer. He Himself gives and makes others give.
He Himself is the Lord, Himself the Protector and Himself is contained in His creation.
Servant Nanak narrates the praise of God, the Creator, who has not even an iota of avarice.
Slok 3rd Guru.
One men brings a vessel full of wine, another comes and fills a cup there from.
By drinking which intellect departs, madness, enters the brain,
man distinguishes not between mine and thine and is buffeted by his Master.
By drinking which the Lord is forgotten and the mortal receives punishment at His court.
Drink thou not, at all, the false wine, as far as it lies in thy power.
Nanak, he, whom the True Guru comes and meets, obtains the true, wine, by God's grace.
He shall ever abide in Lord's love and obtain a seat in His presence.
3rd Guru.
When this man realizes Him, he remains dead in life.
When the Lord puts man to sleep, then, he, continues to sleep and when the Lord awakes him, then, he regains consciousness (as to what his origin and purpose of life is).
Nanak, if God casts His merciful glance, He makes man meet the true Guru.
If by Guru's grace, the mortal remains dead in life, then, he dies not again.
Pauri.
At whose bidding, everything is done, what does He care for anybody else?
My reverend Lord, all eat what Thou givest them. All are under Thy subservience,
O my Immaculate Lord, he who praiseth Thee and to whom, Thou art merciful, obtains everything.
He alone is a banker and a true trader, who carries the commodity of the wealth of Thy Name, O my God.
O Saints, praise ye all that Lord who has dismantled the mounds of another's love.
Slok.
Kabir the world is passing away to meet ultimate death. However, no body knows how to die.
He who dies such a death (after Lord's will)dies not again.
3rd Guru.
What do I know, how shall I die and, what sort of death shall it be?
If, within my mind, I forget not the Lord, then my death shall be easy.
The world is afraid of death and everyone long to live.
He alone, who by Guru's grace dies in life, understands Lord's will.
Nanak, if man dies such a death then, he continues to live for ever.
Pauri.
When the Lord God Himself becomes kind, then, He Himself causes His Name to be repeated.
The Lord Himself makes the man meet the True Guru and blesses him with peace. His attendant is ever pleasing to the Lord.
God Himself preserves the honour of His slaves and makes men fall at the feet of His devotees.
The Righteous Judge is the creation of God and he comes not near the God's serf and servant.
He, who is dear to God, is dear to all. Good many others uselessly continue coming and going.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The entire world goes about uttering Lord's Name, but the Lord is not obtained like this.
Inaccessible, Incomprehensible and exceedingly Great is the Lord. He is unweighable and cannot be weighed.
No one can evaluate Him and He cannot be purchased for any price.
Through the Guru's Word His mystery is knows and in this way He comes to abide in man's mind.
Nanak, He is Infinite and by Guru's grace is He perceived pervading everywhere.
The Lord, of His own, comes to meet with the man and having met, remains blended with him.
3rd Guru.
O my soul, this Name is the wealth, from which peace ever and ever springs.
Loss never accrues therefrom, but man ever earns profit.
By eating and expending it decreases not, as He, the Lord ever, ever continues to give.
The mortal is never afflicted with doubt and he suffers not an humiliation ever.
Nanak, through the Guru, the Name is attained by him, on whom He casts His kind glance.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself is within and Himself without all the hearts.
He Himself prevails unmanifest and Himself is the manifest.
For thirty ages. He created pitch darkness and Himself abided in void.
No Vedas, Puranas and Shastras were there. The Transcendent Lord God was all by Himself.
Withdrawn from all, He Himself sat assuming absolute trance.
His extent He Himself knows and Himself is He the unfathomable ocean.
Slok 3rd Guru.
In egotism the world is dead and continues to die.
As long as there is breath in the body, so long the man remembers not the Lord. What shall he do when he goes in the yond?
He who is a divine is on the alert. The agnostic acts blindly.
Nanak, whatever man does over here, that alone he receives and obtains going hereafter.
3rd Guru.
From the very beginning, it is the will of the Lord, that He cannot be remembered without the True Guru.
Meeting with the True Guru, the man realises the Lord to be contained in his mind and he ever remains absorbed in His love.
At every breath, he ever remembers the Lord and not a single breath of his passes in vain.
His fear of birth and death departs, and he obtains the honour of an eternal life.
Nanak, the Commandant gives this rank to him, on whom He bestows His mercy.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself is All-wise and Omniscient and He Himself is supreme.
He Himself shows His sight and Himself engages man in His meditation.
He Himself poses as a taciturnist and Himself expounds Divine knowledge.
He seems bitter to none and is pleasing to all.
His praise cannot be described Ever, and ever I am a sacrifice unto Him.
Slok 1st Guru.
In the Dark age, O Nanak, the goblins are born.
Son is the demon, daughter is the she demon and wife is the chief of those he and she demons.
1st Guru.
The Hindus have forgotten the Primal Lord and are going the wrong way.
As Narad instructed so they worship the idols.
They are blind, dumb and the blindest of the blind.
The ignorant fools take stones and worship them.
Those stones when they themselves sink, how shall they ferry thee across?
Pauri.
Everything is in Thy power and thou art the true King.
The Saints are imbued with the love of one Lord and they have perfect faith in Him.
God's Name is the ambrosial food, which His slaves eat to their fill.
Lord's meditation is the true profit, by which all the valuables are obtained.
Nanak, the saints are dear unto the Transcendent Lord God, who is Unapproachable and Unfathomable.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Everything comes through Lord's will and through Lord's will everything goes.
If some fool deems himself the creator, he is blind and does blind acts.
Nanak, only he, on whom the Lord bestows His mercy, understands His will, through the Guru.
3rd Guru.
He is the Yogi and he alone finds the way, who has obtained the Name, through the Guru.
In that Yogi's body hamlet all the virtues abide. Through religious garb one attains not the True Yoga.
Nanak, such a Yogi is rare within whose mind the Lord manifests Himself.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself has created the creatures and He Himself gives them sustenance.
Himself is He seen subtle and Himself sizable.
He Himself abides as a solitarian and Himself has a huge family.
Nanak asks for the gift of the dust of the feet of God's saints.
I see no other Benefactor; Thou alone art the Giver.
There is but One God. True is His Name and creative His personality. He is without fear, without enmity, immortal in from beyond birth and self-illumined. By Guru's grace He is obtained.
Rag Wadhans.1st Guru.
Unto the opium-addict nothing equals opium and unto the fish nothing equals water.
But they, who are imbued with their Lord, to them all are pleasing.
May I have sacrificed and cut into pieces, O Lord, for Thine Name. Pause.
The Lord is a fruitful tree, whose Name is ambrosia.
They who partake of the Name Nectar are satiated. I am a sacrifice unto them.
Thou art not visible unto me though Thou abidest with all.
How can the thirst of the thirsty like me abate, when there is a screen between the tank and me?
Nanak is Thine dealer and Thou, O Lord, art my capital.
Then, alone, the doubt departs from my mind, when I praise and pray to Thee.
Wadhans 1st Guru.
The virtuous wife enjoys her Spouse. Why does the one without any merit bewail?
If she becomes virtuous, then she too shall go to enjoy her Spouse.
My spouse is a treasure of ambrosia; why should a woman enjoys and other? Pause.
If the bride does virtuous deeds and turns her heart into a thread,
she then strings her Spouse's mind thereon like a jewel, which cannot be obtained for any price.
I ask from others but walk not the way shown to me and yet I say I have reaches my destination.
With Thee, O My Spouse, I speak not how can I then, have an abode in thy house?
Nanak, without the One Lord, there is not any other.
If the bride remains attached to Thee, she too shall enjoy (Thee) her Spouse.
Wadhans 1st Guru.
The peacocks are sweetly crying, O sister, the rainy month of "Sawan" has come.
O Beloved, Thine amorous eyes are like a rope and their charm has fascinated and bewitched the bride.
I may cut myself into pieces for a glimpse of Thine and unto Thy Name I am a sacrifice.
Now that I have attained thee, I then take pride in Thee. Without thee, what can I be proud of?
O bride, smash thy bracelets along with thy couch and break thy arms as well as the arms of thy couch.
Because inspite of thy making so many decorations, O bride thy Groom is imbued with the love of another.
Thou hast not the real bracelet-dealer, neither gold bracelets, nor good glass bangles.
The arms, which embrace not the Spouse's neck, they burn in anguish.
All my mates have gone to enjoy their Bridegroom, whose door should I, the wretched one, approach?
O friend, I am of good conduct. But not even one deed of mine is pleasing to Him, my Lord.
Dressing my hair. I plait them into tresses and fill their partings with vermilion.
But, when I go before my love, I am not accepted and I die of excessive sorrow.
I weep, the whole world weeps and even the birds of the forests weep with me.
But one thing, my Body's soul weeps not, which has separated me from my beloved.
He came to me in my dream and again went away, upon which I wept copious tears.
I cannot come to Thee, O my love, nor can I send any one.
Come, O fortunate sleep perhaps I may again, behold that Husband of mine (in dreams).
Says Nanak, what shall I give him, who gives me a message of that Master of mine?
Cutting off my head I will give it to him to sit on, and without head, I will perform his service.
Why do I not die and give up my life, since my Spouse has chosen to cherish another?
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
When the mind is filthy. By washing the body, the mind becomes not pure.
This world is led astray by doubt and only a rare one understands this.
O my soul, repeat thou the one Name.
The True Guru has given me this treasure. Pause.
Even if one learns the postures of the adepts and practises the restraint of his sense,
the dirt of his mind if removed not, nor departs the filth of his self-conceit.
There is no other cure for the ailment of this mind, except by taking shelter in the True Guru.
By meeting with the True Guru, the mind's outlook is changed beyond expression.
Says Nanak, if any one dies on meeting the True Guru and be again, re-animated by Guru's teaching,
the filth of his worldly love shall depart, and this mind of his shall become pure.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
By God's grace, the mortal serves the True Guru and through God's grace, the service is performed.
By Lord's grace this mind is controlled and by His grace it becomes pure.
O my soul, contemplate thou on that True Lord.
If Thou remember the One Lord then shalt thou obtains peace and shalt never come to grief, again. Pause.
By God's favour, dying unto himself the man is resurrected and, by his grace, the name comes to be enshrined in his mind.
By God's grace His will is realised and in His will, the mortal remains merged.
The tongue, which enjoys not the Lord's elixir, may that tongue be burnt.
It remains attached to the relishes of other pleasures and suffers pain through duality.
The Unique Lord shows mercy unto all, but in its degree, He Himself makes a difference.
Meeting with the True Guru, the fruit is obtained, and the Guru blesses the mortal with the Name's greatness.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
The love of wealth is spiritual darkness and without the Guru, gnosis is attained not.
They, who are attached to the Name, understands this but duality has ruined the people.
O my soul, under Guru's instruction do thou the good deeds.
If thou ever and ever meditate on the Lord God, then, shalt thou obtain the door of salvation. Pause.
The Lord alone is the treasure of virtues and if He Himself gives, then alone can anyone attain them.
Without the Name all are separated from the Lord. By Guru's instruction, one meets the Lord.
By practising ego, men have run into loss and nothing has come into their hands.
Meeting the True Guru, man obtains Truth and is merged in the True Name.
Hope and desire abide in this body and the Lord's light, too, burns therein.
Nanak, the self-wards remain in bondage and the Guru-wards the Lord emancipates.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
Ever bright is the face of the happy brides, who through the Guru, remain sober-minded.
Eradicating their ego from within, they ever enjoy her Beloved.
O my mind, meditate, thou on the Lord God's Name.
The true Guru has made me realise the Lord. Pause.
The deserted wives bewail profusely as they attain not their Lord.
Owing to another's love, they look ugly and going to the world beyond, they suffer pain.
The Virtuous one ever utters Lord's praise, and in her mind enshrines the Lord's Name.
The sinful bride suffers pain and bewails.
The One Lord is the spouse of all. His praise is beyond expression.
Nanak, the Lord has separated some from Himself, and some He has attached with His Name.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
The Name Nectar is ever sweet unto me and by Guru's instruction I have enjoyed its relish.
Through the True hymns of the Guru, man is merged into equipoise and the reverend Lord is enshrined in the mind.
Showing His mercy, God has made me meet the True Guru.
Through the perfect Satguru I have contemplated over the God's Name. Pause.
Through Brahma, the hymns of the Vedas were revealed, however, he extended the love of mammon.
The seer Shiva remain absorbed in himself and he is engrossed in excessive wrath and pride.
Vishnu is ever busy in reincarnating himself. So by whose association is the world to be emancipated?
The Guru-ward are imbued with gnosis in this age and they are rid of the darkness of worldly love.
By the True Guru's service, emancipation, is attained, and through the Guru, the mortal crosses the world ocean.
The world-renouncers are imbued with the True Name and they attain the door of salvation.
The unique True Lord is contained within all and He cherishes everyone.
Nanak, without the one God, I know not another. He is the merciful master of all.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
Through the Guru, one acquires truth, self-discipline and the real divine knowledge.
Through the Guru, man's attention is fixed on the True One.
Through the Guru, O my soul, remember thou the Name.
I shall ever stand by Thee and shall go with thee hereafter. Pause.
He, the True Lord, is the caste and honour of the Guru wards.
within the mind of the Guru-wards, abides that Master, the Succourer.
He alone turns Guru-ward whom the Lord, Himself so blesseth.
To the Guru-wards, He Himself grants greatness.
The Guru-ward practiseth the True Name and the sublime deeds.
The Guru-ward, O Nanak, emancipates his known, too.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
MY tongue is spontaneously attached to God's relish.
My soul is satiated by meditating on the God's Name.
Eternal peace is obtained by remembering the True Name.
Unto my True Guru, I am ever a sacrifice. Pause.
Embracing love for the One Lord, mine eyes are content.
My soul is propitiated by forsaking the love of another.
In the body frame prevails the peace by pondering over the Lord God's Name.
The Name's fragrance abides within my mind.
Nanak, he on whose brow is writ the great destiny,
through Guru's hymns, he naturally becomes desireless.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
From the perfect Guru alone, the Name is obtained.
Through the True Name one merges in the True Lord.
O my soul, thou obtain, the Name treasure,
and submit to the will of thy Guru. Pause.
By Guru's words the filth from within is washed off,
and the immaculate Name comes to abide in man's mind.
Beguiled by doubt the world wanders about.
It suffers transmigration and death's courier ruins it.
Nanak, very fortunate are they who dwell on the Lord's Name,
and by the Guru's grace, enshrine the Name in their mind.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
Ego is at variance with the Name: the two dwell not in one place.
In ego, service cannot be performed so the soul goes empty handed.
O my soul, meditate thou on God and practise thou the Guru's word.
If thou obey God's order, then Shalt thou meet Him and then alone, ego shall depart from within thee. Pause.
Ego is within all the bodies. Through pride the beings are born.
Egotism leads to pitch darkness and in egotism none can understand anything.
In self-conceit Lord's devotional service cannot be performed, no, can His will be realised.
In ego, the soul if imprisoned and the Name comes not to abide in the mind.
Nanak, meeting with the True Guru, man's ego is destroyed and the true Lord comes to dwell within his mind, then.
He practises truth, abides in truth and by serving the True one gets absorbed in him.
Wadhans 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
There is but one (mind) couch and the one Lord Master rests thereon.
There the Guru-ward enjoy God, the ocean of peace.
Within my mind is the longing and hope to meet my Lord.
The perfect Guru makes me meet me Beloved. I am a sacrifice, sacrifice unto my Guru. Pause.
My body is brimful with inequities.
How can I meet my Perfect Lord, then?
The virtues by which one attained to my Beloved,
those virtues I do not possess, so how can I meet my Love, O my mother?
I have grown weary of making various efforts.
O my Lord, protect, Thou Nanak, the meek one.
Wadhans 4th Guru.
Beauteous is my Lord God. I know not His worth.
Abandoning the Lord Master, I am enamoured of the World.
How can I, the childish one, meet with my Spouse?
She, who is pleasing to the Beloved, is the happy bride. She the wise one, alone meets with her Beloved. Pause.
In me are demerits, how can I attain to my Spouse?
Thou hast many sweet hearts, O Groom; I am not in thy remembrance.
She alone, who enjoys her spouse is the good true bride.
Those virtues I possess not; What should I, the discarded one, then do?
The true bride daily enjoys her spouse for ever.
Will my Lord ever hug me, an unmerited one, to His bosom?
Thou, O Lord, art full of merits, while I am without any merit,
O Lord, Thou, forgive Nanak, the meritless and meek one.
Wadhans 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Within my mind is great longing O Lord; how shall I see thee?
I go and ask my True Guru and taking Guru's counsel, instruct my foolish soul.
The deluded, soul understands through Guru's instruction and, so, meditates ever on the Lord God.
He, on whom is my Beloved's mercy, O Nanak, attunes his mind to God's feet.
For my Spouse, I wear all sorts of robes, so that my True Lord God may be pleased with me.
He, the dear Spouse does not even cast a glance towards me. How can I be consoled.
He, for whose sake I am bedecked with decorations, that Spouse of mine is imbued with the love of another.
Nanak, blest! blest! blest is the true bride who enjoyeth her sublime True Spouse.
I go and ask the fortunate faithful bride: how hast thou obtained the Groom, my Lord.
Says, she "I have abandoned the differentiation between mine and thine, so the True Spouse has blessed me with His mercy".
Surrender thy mind, body soul and all to the Lord God. This is the way to meet Him, O my sister?
Nanak, if his Lord beholds him with favour, then man's light blends with God's light.
He, who conveys me the message of my Lord God, to him I offer my soul and body.
I daily wave the fan over him, perform his service and carry water of him.
Ever, ever I serve the God's servant who recites to me the Gospel of the Lord God.
Hail! hail unto the Guru, the great perfect Satguru, who fulfils the desire of Nanak's heart.
O God, make me meet with the Guru, my friend, by meeting whom I meditate on God's Name.
I ask for the Lord's gospel from the great True Guru and joining him I sing the Lord's praise.
Daily, every day and ever I sing Thy praise, O Lord, as my soul lives by hearing Thine Name.
O Nanak, the moment I forget my Lord, at that very time my soul ceases to live.
Everyone longs to see God, but he alone sees Him whom He Himself blesses with His vision.
He, on whom my beloved Lord showers His Grace, ever cherishes the Lord Master.
He, whom my Perfect True Guru meets, ever and ever meditates on the Name of the Lord God.
Nanak, God's slave and God become one. By reflecting over the Lord, one blends with the Lord.
Wadhans 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Loftiest of the lofty is His court.
It has no end or any limits.
Myriads, myriads, myriads, and laces are keen,
but none can find even a particle of His mansion.
What is that auspicious moment when the Lord is met? Pause.
Whom lacs of saints meditate upon.
Lakhs of penitents do penance unto Him.
Hundreds of thousands of Yogis practise Yoga.
Lacs of persons given to enjoyment, enjoy His dainties.
He abideth in every heart, yet only a few know it.
Is there any friend who can rend the screen of separation?
If the Lord be kind to me, then alone I can make an effort to meet Him.
Unto Him I sacrifice my body and soul.
After fruitless, wanderings, I have come to the saints,
and all my troubles and doubts are dispelled.
The Lord has called me to His presence to be blessed with Name Nectar.
Says Nanak, my Master is the highest of the high.
Wadhans 5th Guru.
Auspicious is the time, when I see my Satguru.
I am a sacrifice unto the feet of the True Guru.
O my Beloved Lord, Thou art the Giver of life unto me.
My soul is sustained by reflecting over the Name of the Lord. Pause.
True is thy instruction and ambrosial thine hymns.
Tranquilising is the sight of Thy person and omniscient Thy eye.
True is Thy command and Thou sittest on the Eternal Throne.
My Eternal Lord comest and goest not.
Thou art the merciful Master and I am a meek attendant of Thine.
Nanak, the Lord is totally pervading everywhere.
Wadhans 5th Guru.
Thou art infinite but only a few know Thee.
By the Guru's grace, Thou art reveled to some, through the Word.
My Beloved, Thy serf makes a supplication.
My Lord, I live by dwelling on Thy feet. Pause.
O my beneficent Lord Compassion, my Master!
He alone realises Thee, whom Thou so blesseth.
Ever and forever I am a sacrifice unto Thee.
Here and hereafter, I seek Thy protection.
I am sans any merit, O Lord, and I know not Thy merits.
Seeing Thy saint, my soul is imbued with Thee, O Nanak.
Wadhans 5th Guru.
He, the Perfect Lord can read the heart.
He blesses one with the gift of the dust of saints feet.
O my Master, merciful to the meek, show mercy unto me.
I seek Thy protection, O Perfect Cherisher of the world. Pause.
The Lord is fully filling the ocean, earth and the sky.
The Lord abides near and is not far off.
Whom He blesses with His mercy, remembers Him,
and all the eight watches through, he sings God's praise.
All the men and other beings He sustains,
Nanak has taken refuge at God's door.
Wadhans 5th Guru.
Thou art the great Giver and the All-Knowing.
Pervadest all, the Perfect Lord Master.
The Name of my beloved Lord, is my soul support.
I live by ever hearing Thy Name. Pause.
My perfect True Guru, I have entered Thy asylum.
With the dust of saints feet, my mind becomes pure.
Lord's lotus feet I have enshrined in my mind and heart.
Unto Thy vision, I am a sacrifice.
Have mercy on me, that I may sing Thy praise.
Nanak, remembering, the Name, I obtain peace.
Wadhans 5th Guru.
In the society, drinks thou the God's Nectar.
The soul dies, not, nor does it ever withers away.
By great good fortune the perfect Guru is attained.
By Guru's grace, the Lord is meditated upon. Pause.
The Lord is the jewel, pearl, gem and the ruby.
By reflecting and pondering over the Lord, I am enraptured.
Where-so-ever I see, I see no other shelter but of the saints.
By singing God's praise, the soul is rendered immaculately pure.
In all the hearts abides the Lord, my Master.
Nanak, when the Lord is in mercy, the mortal is blessed with the Name.
Wadhans 5th Guru.
Forsake me not, O Lord merciful to the meek.
Thy refuge, I seek, O Thou the Omnipresent, compassionate Lord. Pause.
Wherever Thou art remembered, that place is blessed.
The moment I forget Thee, repentance overtake me, then.
All creatures are Thine, and Thou art their constant companion.
Giving me Thy hand, pull me out of the world ocean.
Coming and going, Thou hast ordained.
He, whom Thou savest, him no anguish overtakes.
Thou art the only Lord, there is not any other.
With joined hands, Nanak makes a supplication before Thee.
Wadhans 5th Guru.
When Thou revealest Thyself, only then, can any one know Thee.
He then repeats the Name given by Thee.
Thou art wondrous and astounding is Thy Omnipotence, O Lord. Pause.
Thou Thyself art the cause and Thyself the Doer.
In Thy will is the birth and in Thy will the death.
The Name is the support of my soul and body.
For Nanak, Thy slave, this is thy beneficence, O Lord.
Wadhans 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Within me is the desire to meet my beloved Lord, the perfect Guru. How can I attain unto Him.
Even though hundreds of amusements be afforded to a child, it cannot live without milk.
My inner hunger is sated, not, O my mate, even though I be served with hundreds of dishes.
Within my soul and body is the love of my Beloved. How can my heart be comforted without seeing Him?
Hear, O my friend and dear brother, lead me unto my Friend, the Giver of peace.
He knows all the anguishes of my heart and daily narrates to me the anecdotes of God.
I cannot live without Him even for a moment, I cry for the Lord as the pied cuckoo does for water.
Which of thy merits should I recount, O Lord? Thou savest even the meritless one like me.
My loving mate, waiting for my Spouse, I have become sad. When shall I behold that Beloved of mine with my eyes?
I have forgotten to enjoy all the pleasures, as without my Groom they are of no account.
This raiment becomes not my body, if I cannot dress myself to please Thee.
I make obeisance unto those mates of mine, who have enjoyed their beloved Spouse.
I have embellished myself in all ways, my bosom mate, but without my Beloved, they are of no avail.
When the Bridegroom cares not for me, O mate, then my youth passes all in vain.
Blessed! blessed are the beloved brides, O my good companion, with whom their Husband remains blended.
I am a sacrifice unto those happy wives, O my mate, and ever wash their feet.
As long as duality and doubt were within me, so long I thought the Lord distant, O my mate.
But when I met the Perfect Satguru, O my mate, then all my hopes and desires were fulfilled.
I have obtained all the comforts, O my companion, when I saw my Groom fully-pervading every where.
O my mate, falling at the feet of the great Satguru, slave Nanak has enjoyed the Lord's love.
Wadhans 3rd Guru. Ashtpadis.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
True is the Gurbani, true is its melody and true is meditation of the Name.
Night and day, I praise the True Lord. Blessed, blessed is the greatest good fortune of mine.
O my soul, be thou a sacrifice, unto the True Name.
If Thou become the slave of the Lord's slaves, then shalt thou obtain the True Name. Pause.
True is the tongue which is imbued with Truth. Thus, the body and soul are rendered True.
By praising any but the True Lord, man departs by wasting his entire live.
Let Truth be the Farm, Truth the Seed and Truth the Trade,
Night and day, then, one reaps the profit of the True Name and comes to possess the treasures brimful with the wealth of Lord's meditation.
The food of Truth, the vesture of Truth and True mainstay of the Lord's Name,
are obtained by him, whom He blessed, Such a person attains a seat in Lord's presence.
In Truth they come, in truth they go and they are not ever cast into existences again.
The Guru-wards are acclaimed as true in the True court and merge in the True Lord.
They are true from within, true is their mind and sing they the true praise and glory of God.
Sitting in the True place, they eulogise the True One, Unto my True Guru, I am a sacrifice.
True is the time and true the trice when men enshrines affection for the True Lord.
Then he sees the Truth, speaks the Truth and realises the True One pervading the entire universe.
Nanak, when the True One unites one with Himself, then alone one is merged in Him, The Lord blends him with Himself.
As it pleases the Lord, so does He keeps the mortals He Himself ordains as is His will.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
Man's mind wanders in ten directions: how can he, then, sing God's praise?
The body organs are greatly engrossed in misdeeds and lust and wrath ever infest the man.
Utter thou the Lord Master's praise in poise.
The Lord's Name is pretty hard to obtain in this age. Under Guru's instruction quaff thou the God's elixir. Pause.
Remembering the Name, the mind becomes pure and then one sings God's praises.
By Guru's instruction, man realises his ownself, and then abides in his own home.
O my soul, be thou ever imbued with Lord's love and sing thou ever the God's glories.
The Immaculate Lord is ever the Giver of bliss and from Him, man obtains his heart desired fruits.
Entering the God's sanctuary, I, the mean one, have become sublime.
True is the greatness of God, who has saved the singing stone.
From poison I have become Nectar. Through Guru's instruction I have obtained wisdom.
From swallow-wort I have become sandal-wood and fragrance has taken root within me.
Invaluable is the human birth: coming into the world, I have earned merit therefrom.
By perfect destiny I have met the True Guru and dwelt on the God's Name.
The perverse persons have gone astray, and being attached to mammon, waste their life in vain.
The God's Name is ever an ocean of peace, but they love not the True Word.
From them mouth everyone repeats God's Name, but only a few enshrine it in their mind.
Nanak, within whose heart dwells the Lord, they alone attain deliverance and emancipation.
Wadhans 1st Guru. Chhant.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Why bathe the body, defied by falsehood?
He who practises Truth, only his ablution is approved.
When there is Truth in the heart then man becomes true and obtains the True Lord.
Without the Lord's writ, understanding is not attained and by babbling and prattling man wastes himself.
Wherever thou, may go and sit, speak well and inscribe the Lord's Name in thy mind.
Why wash the body, defiled by falsehood.
When Thou, O Lord, made me speak then did I repeat Thy Name.
The ambrosial Name of God, is pleasing to my soul.
Thy Name is sweet unto my mind and it has dismantled the abode of sorrow.
When Thou gave the Command peace came to abide in my mind.
My task to make a supplication and Thine to shower benediction. Thou art the Lord who has created Thine ownself.
When Thou, o Lord, inspired me is speak, then did I repeat according.
The Lord gives mortal his turn of human life, according to the deeds done by him.
Speak not ill of another nor involve thyself in a quarrel.
Embroil thyself not in strife with thy Lord. This way thou shalt only ruin thyself.
By pleading rivalry with the Lord, with Whom one has to abide, who shall not have to bewail going hereafter?
Bear with grace What God gives thee: instruct thy mind not to grumble in vain.
The Lord gives the man his turn of human life, according to the deeds done by him.
The Lord Himself created all and Himself He blesses them with favour.
Nobody asks for what is bitter, everyone desires what is sweet.
Let everyone beg for what is sweet and see that that alone would come to pass which the Lord go pleases to ordain.
Alms, charity in any amount and various religious deeds are not equal to, or at par with the contemplation of the Lord's Name.
Nanak, they who are blessed with the Name, are the recipients of the Lord's grace since long.
The Lord Himself has created all and Himself He takes pity on them.
Wadhans 1st Guru.
Show mercy unto me, O Lord that I may utter Thy Name.
Thou Thyself hast created all and Thyself art pervading amongst all.
Thyself Thou pervadest all and creating all, Thou hast put them to work.
Thou has made some beings as kings and some go about begging for alms.
Avarice and worldly love Thou have made to seem sweet and in this misgiving the man is deluded.
By Thou ever merciful unto me. Then alone can I repeat Thine Name.
True is Thy Name and it is ever pleasing to my mind.
My pain is dispelled and pleasure has come and entered my mind.
The gods, the men, the discreet and the wise sing of Thee, O Lord.
Sing Thee the gods, the men, the discreet and the wise, who are pleasing to Thy mind.
Enticed away by mammon, men remember not God, and lose their life in vain.
Some fools and idiots think not ever of God. They realise not, that he, who has come, shall go.
Ever true is Thy Name it pleaseth my mind.
Beauteous is the time, when Thou art remembered and ambrosial is Thy word, O Lord.
Thy slaves serve Thee with love and these mortals have acquired the relish of Thy service.
Those mortals alone relish Lord's service, who are blessed with the Nectar-Name.
They, who are imbued with Thy Name, proper day by day.
Some, who know not the One Lord, practise not good deeds, piety and self-restraint.
Ever auspicious is the time when thou art remembered and Nectar sweet is Thy Gurbani.
I am a sacrifice unto the True Name.
Thy rule never ends.
Ever eternal is Thy sovereignty and never is it liquidated.
He alone becomes thy slave, O Lord, who, in a state of poise, ever cherishes Thee.
Adversary and adversity touch him not ever, nor sin draws near him.
I am ever devoted unto Thee and Thy one Name.
All the ages through, O Lord, Thy devoted slaves,
standing at Thy Gate, have sung Thy praises.
They meditate on the one True Lord, the enemy of pride.
Then alone do they meditate on the True Lord, when they enshrine Him in their mind.
Doubt and delusion art Thy creation. When these are dispelled then,
by the Guru's grace. Thou blesseth Thy devotee with favour and saveth him from the yama's noose.
Throughout all the ages, Thy devotees have been singing Thy praises, O Lord.
O My great Lord, Thou art Incomprehensible and Infinite.
How should I make supplication? I know not what to say.
If Thou bless me with favour, then alone, can I know Thy truth.
When Thou Thyself instructest me, then alone do I know Thy Truth.
Affliction and hunger, too, art Thy creation in this world. Pray rid me Thou of this anxiety.
Supplicates Nanak, man's anxiety is dispelled if he understands the Guru-given gnosis.
The great Lord Himself is Incomprehensible and Infinite.
Beauteous are Thy eyes and relish giving Thy teeth.
Thou art the Lord, who hast graceful nose and long hair.
Cast in gold, Thy body is precious.
Cast in gold is His body, with a rosary like that of Krishna. Meditate thou on Him, O my mates.
If ye hear this sermon, O my mates, then, ye shalt not stand at the death courier's door.
The filth of your mind shall be removed, and from a great heron, you shall become a great swan.
Beautiful are Thy eyes and relish-giving Thy Teeth, O Lord.
Graceful is Thy gait and sweet Thy speech.
Thou cooest like a cuckoo and budding is Thy youth.
Thy budding youth is pleasing to Thee and its sight fulfills the heart's desires.
Like an elephant Thou conquettishly placeth Thy foot and art intoxicated within thyself.
She, who is imbued with the love of such a sublime Spouse, flows inebriated like Gange's water.
Supplicates Nanak, I am Thy slave, O Lord, Graceful is Thy gait and sweet Thy speech.
Wadhans 3rd Guru. Chhant.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
O perishable beauteous bride, remain, thou, imbued with love of the Groom.
O mortal bride, remain thou united with The True Name: thus shalt thou enjoy the darling Spouse with love.
The Groom embellishes with His true affection the sweet-heart who bears love to her Lord God.
When the bride abandons her self-conceit, then attainest she to her spouse and remainest merged in the Gurbani.
The bride who is attracted by her Lord's love and to whose mind, His affection is dear, is adorned with His Name.
Nanak, the chaste wife, the Beloved blends with Himself The True King bedecks her with His Name.
O meritless woman, see thou thy Husband just close at hand.
O perishable bride, she, who through the Guru remembers her Groom, sees Him fully pervading.
The Lord is fully filling all Perceive thou His Presence, All the ages through, thou realise Him to be the same.
The young innocent bride, easily, enjoys her Bridegroom and meets the Builder of destiny.
She, who tastes God's elixir and utters and sublime Name, remains immersed in the Lord's nectarean tank.
Nanak, the bride, who through Guru's word, abides, in her Groom's presence, is pleasing to Him.
O mortals wife, go and ask the happy wives, who have effaced their-self conceit.
Thy, who still not their ego from within, O mortal wife, realize not their Beloved command.
They, who efface their-self, attain to their Spouse and bill and coo with their love.
Ever imbued with her Groom's love, in a state of perfect poise, night and day, she repeats His Name.
Very fortunate is the bride whose mind's attention is fixed on her Groom and to whom is sweet her Lord's love.
Nanak, the bride who is adorned with Truth is imbued in s state, of poise with her Lord's love.
Dispel thy pride, O perishable bride, and walk thou in Guru's way.
O mortal wife, thus shalt Thou, ever, enjoy God, the Spouse, and obtain an abode in thy own home.
Abiding in her own home, she utters the Name and becomes a happy wife for aye.
The Beloved Spouse is social and Ever young and he eternally embellishes his bride.
Through her Groom, the immortal Lord, her brow's destiny awakens and she is bedecked with the True word.
Nanak, when the damsel walks according to the will of the True Guru, she gets imbued with Lord's love, then.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
If accomplished through divine knowledge, then, all the dealings of the pious person are good.
Night and day he utters God's Name and reaps the profit of quaffing Lord's elixir.
He obtains the profit of God's Nectar, meditates on God, and repeats he, the Name. night and day.
He amasses merits and banishes demerits, so he recognises his own-self.
By Guru's instruction he is blessed with great glory and quaffs the Nectar of the True Name.
Nanak, wondrous is the devotional service of God. However, through the Guru only, a few perform it.
By Guru's grace, sow and grow the Lord God's crop within thy body field.
Thus shalt thou enjoy God's essence within the home and reap benefit in the world-beyond.
Blessed is the tillage and trade of enshrining the Lord in the mind. Whereby profit is gained in the Yond.
He who meditates on the Name and keeps it in his mind, understands Guru's teaching.
The perverse are tired of farming and trade, their thirst and hunger depart not.
O Nanak, sow thou the seed of the Name in thy mind and thus get adorned with the True Name.
The men, on whose brow the jewel of good fortune is studded engage in the Lord's trade.
By Guru's instruction the soul abides in its own home and sings the True Gurbani with love.
On account of their Supreme sublime destiny, the meditators attain true dispassion and are imbued with Truth.
Without the Name, the entire world is gone mad. Through the Name man's ego is stilled.
Being attached to the True Name, real wisdom is gathered and through the Guru-ward, Name, thy Spouse is obtained.
Nanak, through the Name, the woman meets with God, the Destroyer of dread, and through the good fortune, writ on the forehead, she enjoys Him.
All true tillage and trade is the acceptance of the Lord's will. By accepting His will, honour is obtained.
By Guru's instruction, the Lord's will is realised and by His will one is united with Him.
According to His will, the man unites and easily blends with the Lord. Supremely exalted are the Guru's hymns.
Through the Guru, true glory is attained and one is embellished with Truth
Losing his self-conceit, man obtains God, the Dispeller of fear, and through the Guru, he is united with Him.
Says Nanak, the Name of the Immaculate, Unreachable and Unfathomable Commander contained every where.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
O my soul, remember thou ever, the True Lord.
Thus shalt thou abide in peace in thy own home and death's courier shall touch thee not.
By embracing affection for the True Name, Death's noose and myrmidon cannot touch the mortal.
The soul, imbued with the True Name, is ever immaculate and ceases to came and go.
Duality and doubt have ruined the way-ward soul and it is lured by death Minister.
Says, Nanak, hearken thou, O my soul and remember thou ever the True Lord.
O my mind, within thee is the treasure, search, thou not the thing without.
Eat thou only that which is pleasing to the Lord and be happy through the Exalted Guru's grace.
O my soul, Lord Master, the Helper, is within thee. By Guru's instruction, be holy and see Him with thine eyes.
The egocentrics are blind and bereft of gnosis and another's love has ruined them.
Without the Name, none is emancipated, All are chained by Death's myrmidon.
Nanak, within thee obtaining is the treasure; seek thou not the thing without.
My mind, obtaining the wealth of human life, some are engaged in the trade of truth.
They serve their True Guru and within them is enshrined the infinite Name.
Within them is the infinite sweet Name of God, and through the Name, they obtain the nine treasures.
The way-ward are engrossed in worldly love. They writhe in pain and through duality lose their honour.
They, who still their ego and merge in the True Name, are thoroughly imbued with truth.
Nanak, difficult to obtain is the human life, The True Guru reveals the real understanding.
O my soul, they who serve their True Guru, very fortunate are those persons.
They who subdue their mind, they are the men of renunciation and detachment.
They, who cherish love for the True Lord, they are the desireless persons, who know their ownself,
stable and very profound is their intellect, and by Guru's grace, they calmly utter the Name.
Some are the lovers of damsels and sweet to them is the love of wealth; Such unlucky apostates remain asleep.
Nanak, they who, with poise, serve their Guru, they are the men of perfect destiny.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
Purchase the invaluable commodity of the Lord's Name; True Guru imparts such and understanding.
The profit of profits is the devotional service of God and the virtuous man merges with the Lord's virtues.
The good man, whom the Lord Himself grants wisdom, remains immersed in goodness, He reaps the profit of Lord's meditation in this world.
Without God's devotion, man obtain not peace. Through another's love, he loses his honour, and by Guru's instruction, he is blessed with the Name's prop.
He, whom the Lord employs in this trade, ever reaps the profit of the Name merchandise.
When the True Guru so instructs the mortal deals in the jewels of the Name goods.
Love of wealth is all an affliction Bad is this bargain.
Uttering falsehood, the mortal eats poison and evil in him greatly increases.
In this doubt afflicted world, the sins have greatly increased and without the Name, man loses honour.
Reading extensive the Scholars indulge in controversies. Without knowing reality they obtain not peace.
To them, love of wealth is sweet so their comings and goings end not ever.
The attachment of worldly valuables is all an affliction. Evil is this trade.
The counterfeit and the genuine are all assayed in the court of the True Lord.
The false one are cast out of the court and incessantly do they bewail.
The fools and idiots stand up and bewail. Those apostates waste away their life.
The mammon is the poison that has deluded the world and it loves not the Name.
Bearing enmity to the saints, an apostate reaps pain in this world.
The false and the true are adjudged in that True court.
The Lord Himself does all. Whom else should I address? None else can do aught.
As is His glory and as His pleasure, so does He engage the mortals.
As is His will, so He Himself makes men act. None, by Himself is a warrior or a coward.
The Beneficent Lord is the life of the world and Builder of destiny. He Himself grants pardon.
By Guru's grace, O Nanak, self conceit is stilled and through the Name, honour is obtained.
The Lord Himself does all. To whom, else should I make a request? None else can do aught.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
The true merchandise is the Lord's Name and true is this trade.
By Guru's instruction we deal in the Lord's Name. Exceedingly great is its worth.
Infinitely great is the worth of this true trade. They are engaged in the true trade are very fortunate.
From within and without they are imbued with Lord's devotion and enshrine affection for the True Name.
He, to whom the Lord shows mercy, obtains truth and reflects on the Guru's hymns.
Nanak, they, who are imbued with the Name, obtain peace, by engaging in the True Name's trade.
The pride of wealth is but filth and the soul is filled with this filth of the wealth pride.
By Guru's instruction the soul is rendered pure and the tongue quaffs God's elixir.
The tongue tastes the Lord's essence, the heart is drenched with Lord's love and the mortal meditates on the True Name.
The heart well is brimming with the Lord's ambrosia and through the Name's meditation, the water carrier draws and drinks it.
He, on whom is Lord's grace, is attuned to truth, and his tongue utters the Lord's Name.
Nanak, immaculate are they, who are imbued with the Name. The others are soiled with the filth of egotism.
All the scholars and astrologers read, peruse and scream aloud. Whom do they want to instruct?
The filth of mammon's attachment is clung to their heart and this business is for money alone.
In the world, they love the mammon's business and by coming and going, writhe in pain.
The worm of poison is attached with poison and is absorbed in ordure.
He practises that What is predestined for him, None can erase it.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the Name, ever attain peace. The other ignorant fools die shrieking aloud.
The mind is tinged with the love of wealth, and because of this love, its right understanding is marred.
If by Guru's grace, this soul is imbued with the Lord's love, then the love of another shall depart.
The love of another goes off, the soul merges in truth and its treasure are filled with truth.
He, who acts in the Guru's way, realise his ownself and the True Lord bedecks him.
He alone whom the Lord Himself unites, unites with Him. Nothing else can be said and done.
Nanak, without the Name, the mortal goes astray in doubt, but some who are imbued with the Name, come to enshrine love for the Lord.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
O my soul, the mortal continues to come and go. Only the True Name shall emancipate him in the end.
When the True Lord Himself grants pardon, he goes not in the round, again.
He goes not in the round again, is ultimately emancipated through the True Name and through the Guru obtains honour.
Imbued with the True Name's love, he is inerbriated with celestial bliss and remains absorbed in the Supreme Lord.
The True Lord is pleasing to his mind, the True Lord he enshrines in his mind and being imbued with the Name, he is delivered in the end.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the Name, merge into the True Lord and again go not in the whirlpool of the terrible world ocean.
The love of riches is all madness and through the love of another the mortal is ruined.
The mother, father and all others are subject to this love and in this love they are entangled.
They are enmeshed in this love, on account of their past actions which none can erase.
He, who has created the world, after creation, takes care of it. As great as He, there is no other.
The blind apostate is consumed by burning in rage and without the Name obtains not peace.
Nanak, without the Name, all are gone astray, and are ruined by the love of riches.
Seeing this world on fire, I have hastened to the Lord's refuge.
I pray before my perfect Guru: "Save me and bless me with the glory of thy Name, O Lord".
O My Lord, keep me in Thy sanctuary and bless me with the greatness of Thy Name. None else is as great a donor as art Thou.
Very fortunate are they who are engaged in Thy service, All the ages(yugas) through, they know the One Lord.
Thou may practise celibacy, truth, self-mortification and rituals, but without the Guru, thou art emancipated not.
Nanak, the Guru brings home the Name unto him who goes and seeks the Lord's protection.
The understanding that the Lord imparts, that alone grows in man and there is no other wisdom.
Within and Without Thou alone art, O Lord and Thou Thyself makest the man realise this.
He, to whom Thou makest realise this, love not another and through the Guru, tastes God's elixir.
In the True Court, he is ever exonerated and the True Name, he lovingly utters.
Within his mind-home, he finds his own Home(God) and the True Guru blesses him with honour.
Nanak, they who are dyed with the Name, mount the Lord's mansion and approved becomes their true intellect.
Wadhans 4th Guru. Chhant.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
My mind, my mind, the True Guru has blessed with the Lord's love.
God, God, God, God's Name he has enshrined within my Mind.
The Lord God's Name, the Eradicator of all the sorrows, abides within my mind.
By the greatest good fortune, I have obtained the sight of the Guru and blessed, blessed is my True Guru.
Standing and sitting, I serve my True Guru, by serving whom I have attained peace.
Within my mind, my mind, I have enshrined affection for my True Guru.
I live, I live and blossom by seeing the True Guru.
God's Name, God's Name, the has implanted in me and I blossom by uttering the Lord God's Name.
Remembering Lord God's Name, the heart lotus blossom and through the Lord's Name I have obtained the nine treasure.
The aliment of egotism is gone, the pain is eliminated and I have entered into the Divine trance of equipoise.
The greatness of God's Name, I have attained from the True Guru and by seeing the sight of the Divine True Guru, my mind is in bliss.
I live, I live and I bloom by seeing the True Guru.
May some one come, some one come and cause me to meet my Perfect True Guru.
My soul and body, my soul and body I shall dedicate unto him and cutting my body into bits I shall offer these, as well to him.
Hewing into pieces, my heart and body, I shall make an offering of these to him, who recites to me the hymns of the True Guru.
My desireless soul has renounced the world and obtaining the vision of the Guru, is blessed with peace.
My peace-giving Lord God, show mercy and bless me with the dust of the True Guru's feet.
Let some one come, some one come and make me meet the Perfect True Guru.
A donor, as big as the Guru, as big as the Guru, I see not any other.
The gift of God's Name, the gift of God's Name, he blesses me with He Himself is the Immaculate Lord Master.
They who reflect on the Lord's Name, their pain, doubt and dread flee away.
The fortunate ones, whose mind is attached to Guru's feet, meet the Lord through the servant's sentiments.
Says Nanak, God Himself makes man meet the Guru and by meeting the Divine True Guru, he is blessed with peace.
A donor, as big as the Guru, as big as the Guru, I see not another.
Wadhans 4th Guru.
I, without the Guru, I, without the Guru, am greatly unhonoured.
The life of the world, the Beneficent Life of the world has made me meet the Guru and into the Name I merge.
Meeting with the True Guru, I have merged in the Lord's Name and meditate on and contemplate over the Lord Master's Name.
He, for whom I was making a search and an inquiry, Him, God, the friend, I have found in my mind home.
The One Lord I see, the One I know and the Lord Master alone do I realise among all the hearts.
I, without the Guru, I, without the Guru, am utterly helpless.
They, whom the True Guru, whom the true Guru meets, them the Lord God unites in His union.
Their feet, their feet I adore, and on their feet do I fall.
O Lord God, I adore the feet of those, who dwell on the True Guru, the Omnipresent, Omnipotent Master.
O Lord, the king, Thou art the great Giver and the Reader of heart. Fulfil Thou my faith.
Meeting the Guru's disciple, my desire is fulfilled and, night and day I sing Lord's praise.
They, whom the True Guru, whom the true Guru, meets, them the Lord God unites in His union.
I am a sacrifice, I am a sacrifice, unto the Guru's disciples, my dear friend.
God's Name, God's Name, he recites to me and the loved Name is my life's mainstay.
The Lord God's Name is my soul's succour and, without it, I can live not even for an instant and a moment.
If the Peace-giving Lord Master shows mercy, I drink-in His Nectar, through the Guru.
Blessing the mortal with His faith the Lord unites him with Himself and Himself the Lord adorns him.
I am a sacrifice, I am a sacrifice, unto the Guru's disciple, my dear friend.
Go is all by Himself, God is all by Himself and He is the Omnipotent, Immaculate Lord.
God Himself, God Himself unites man with Himself. What He does that comes to pass.
Whatever pleases the Lord God, that alone comes to pass and nothing else can be done.
Through great ingenuity He is attained not, By practising cleverness, all have grown weary.
By Guru's grace, slave Nanak has seen the Lord and without God, I have none else.
God is all by Himself, God is all by Himself and He alone is the Immaculate Lord.
Wadhans 4th Guru.
My master, make me meet, the Divine True Guru, the Divine True Guru. The Divine Satguru's feet are pleasing unto me.
Applying the eye-slave of Divine knowledge, the Guru has dispelled the darkness of my ignorance.
The Satguru has applied the collyrium of Divine knowledge and the darkness of my ignorance is dispelled.
By serving the True Guru, I have obtained the supreme status and have dwelt on God with every breath and morsel of mine.
They, to whom the Lord God shows mercy them He yokes to the True Guru's service.
Lead me to the Divine True Guru, the Divine True Guru, O Lord, as the feet of the Divine True Guru are dear unto me.
My True Guru, my True Guru is my beloved and without the Guru, I can live not.
He gives me God's name, God's Name, which succours me in the end.
The Lord God's Name shall be my succour in the end; the great True Guru has implanted the Name in me.
Where neither the son, nor the wife shall be my friend, there is Lord Master's Name shall liberate me.
Blessed! blessed! is the True Guru, my Immaculate Lord, by meeting whom I meditate on the God's Name.
My True Guru, my True Guru is my Beloved. Without the Guru, I can live not.
They, who have not obtained the vision, the vision of the True Guru,
the embodiment of the Lord, they have fruitlessly, fruitlessly, wasted away their entire human life, in vain.
They fruitlessly waste away their human life, in vain. Those mammon-worshippers die, die repentingly.
Inspite of having the treasure of the jewel Name in their home, they remain hungry. Those unlucky fellows are far distant from the Lord.
My Lord Master, let me not see the sight of those who remember not the Lord God's Name.
And also of those who obtain not the view, the view of the Divine Guru.
I am a pied - cuckoo, I am a meek cuckoo, and make a supplication before my Lord.
O Lord make me meet my Guru, my beloved Guru, so that I devote myself to the service of my true Guru.
Serve I the Divine, the Divine True Guru, when the Lord God shows mercy unto me.
Without the Guru, I have no other friend, The great True Guru is my very life.
Says Nanak, the Guru has implanted the Name within me and I dwell upon the Name of the Lord God, the True God.
I am a pied-cuckoo, a meek pied cuckoo and I pray to my Lord.
Wadhans 4th Guru.
My Lord God, show mercy and lead me to my peace-giving True Guru.
From the True Guru, I inquire, I inquire about the God's discourses.
God's sermon I ask from the True Guru, who has attained the Name's wealth.
I bow at his feet and pray ever to him. The great True Guru has shown me the way.
He alone is a saint, who deems woe and weal alike and is imbued with the Lord God's Name and His love.
Show mercy, show mercy, O Lord Master and make me meet the peace giving, great True Guru.
Hearing from the Guru, hearing from the Guru, the Lord's Name, the ego and all the sins are eradicated.
Remembering the Lord God, remembering the Lord God's Name, the worldly ailments have vanished.
They, who contemplate on the Lord Master's Name, are rid of their suffering and sins.
The True Guru has given in my hand the sword of Divine knowledge, wherewith I have knocked down and killed the Death's courier.
The comfort giving Lord God has showered His benediction, and I am rid of suffering, sin and affliction.
Hearing from the Guru, hearing from the Guru, the Lord's Name, all the sins and ego are eradicated.
The meditation of the Lord God, the meditation of the Lord God's Name is pleasing to my mind.
By remembering the Lord through the supreme Guru, through the supreme Guru, all the diseases have disappeared.
Remembering God, through the Guru, all the diseases have vanished and healthy has becomes the body.
Night and day, such a mortal remains absorbed in the celestial trance and meditates on the Profound and Unfathomable Lord Master.
Of high caste, or low one, who so-ever meditates on the Name, he obtains the supreme wealth.
The meditation of the Lord Master, the meditation of the Lord Master's Name is pleasing to my mind.
Show mercy, O God, show mercy O God, and save me by Thine grace.
I am a sinner, I am a meritless sinner, but all the same, I am a meek slave of Thine.
Meritless sinner though I am I, Thy meek slave, seek thy refuge, O merciful God.
Thou art the Destroyer of pain, and the Giver of all-peace and I, a stone, can only be saved it thou savest me.
Meeting with the True Guru, slave Nanak, has obtained Lord's Nectar and is saved by remembering the Name.
Show mercy, O God, show mercy O God and save me by Thine grace.
Wadhans 4th Guru. Paeans.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
True body mare has been created by the Lord Master.
Blessed is the human life, which is attained through virtue.
The human life obtained by supreme merit and the said body is like the fine gold.
By Guru's grace the body attains the poppy flower like colour, and is imbued in the new colour of Lords God's Name.
Very beauteous is this body, which dwells on God and with the Lord God's Name, it is bedecked.
Through the greatest good fortune, this body is obtained. The Lord's Name is its succourer and the Lord has created it, O slave Nanak.
The good Lord's meditation is the saddle, which I put on the body mare.
Riding this body mare, I cross the arduous world ocean.
The difficult ocean has countless waves and the Supreme Guru, ferries the man across.
Embarking on the Lord's ship, the fortunate ones cross over the with his hymns, Guru's the boatman, ferries across the mortals.
Imbued with God's love, the God's lover, night and day, sings God's praise and becomes like. God.
The servant, O Nanak, has attained the state of emancipation, the Lord's commendable and sublime Divine state.
In place of the bridle in the mouth, the Guru has implanted gnosis within me.
He has applied the whip of God's love to my body.
Applying the whip of the Lord's love to his body, the holy man conquers his mind and wins the battle.
He trains his untrained mind with the Divine word and drinks in the animating God's Nectar
Hearing with thine, ears, the hymns, uttered by the Guru, imbue thou, thy body steed, with God's love.
Servant Nanak has traversed across the path, the very arduous path of death.
The fleeting body mare has been created by my Lord Master.
Blessed! blessed is the body mare, by which the Lord God is meditated upon.
By which the Lord God is meditated upon, auspicious and praise-worthy is that body mare. It is obtained through the accumulated past good actions.
Mounting the body mare, the mortal crosses the arduous world ocean and by Guru's grace, meets with God, the embodiment of supreme bliss.
The Perfect Lord Master has arranged the wedding. Meeting together, the pious persons have come as a marriage party.
The serf Nanak, has obtained God as his spouse, Meeting together, the saints sing the song of joy and congratulate him.
Wadhans 4th Guru.
The body is the God's mare of ever-fresh colour.
From the Guru I ask for the knowledge of the great God.
I pray for Divine knowledge and the Lord's sublime discourse. Through the Name, I have realized the worth of salvation.
The Lord God's Name, I have uttered. The creator has rendered fruitful my entire life.
God's slave begs for the Lord God's Name, the Lord God's praise and the Lord's devotional service.
Says slave Nanak, hearken, O ye saints, sublime is the meditation of God, the World-Lord.
The golden body is adorned with the saddle of gold.
It is studded with the gems of the Lord God's Name.
So studded with the Name jewels, the mortal obtains the World-Lord, meets God, sings God's praise and attain many comforts.
Receiving the Guru's instruction, he meditates on the Lord Name and, by good fortune, embracing the Lord's love, he himself becomes the Lord.
I have met the Lord God, the reader of hearts, Ever-new is His body and ever fresh is His colour.
Nanak, utters and realises the Name. He begs for the God's Name from the Lord God.
The goad of Guru's order is the bit, which I have put in the mouth of the mare.
The mind elephant is over powered, through the Guru's instruction.
The bride, whose mind is controlled, attains to supreme status and becomes the beloved of her spouse.
Such a bride, within her core bear love to God and looks beauteous in her Lord God's home.
Imbued with the Lord's love, she absorbed in God's meditation and meditating on God's Name, attains to the Lord God.
Says servant Nanak, the Lord's slave the very fortunate alone, meditate on the Lord God.
O sire the body is the mare through which the mortal rideth to his God.
Meeting with the venerable True Guru, man sings the song of joy.
Sing thou the praise of the Lord and the Lord's Name, serve thou the Lord and become the slave of His slave.
Thou shalt go and meet the Beloved Lord in His mansion, and enjoy God's love with pleasure.
I sing Lord's praise, which is pleasing to my mind and by Guru's instruction, I remember God within my mind.
God has shown mercy unto slave Nanak and mounting the body mare, he has obtained the Lord.
Rag Wadhans 5th Guru. A Chhant
There is but One God, By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Meeting with the Guru, O sire, I have found my Lord, my beloved Lord.
Of this body and mind, I have made an offering, to my Lord.
Dedicating my body and soul I have crossed the dreadful world ocean and shaken off the fear of death.
Quaffing the Name Nectar, I have become immortal and my comings and goings have ceased.
I have found the home, where in I enter the trance of equipoise and Lord's Name becomes my mainstay.
Says Nanak, I enjoy peace and revelments and make obeisance unto me Perfect Guru.
Hear, O my friend and intimate.
The Guru has counselled me to remember the True Name.
Meditating on the True Name, my mind, anxieties are removed and I sing the song of joy.
I have found the Lord, who goes no where and ever, ever sits with me.
He who is pleasing to the venerable Lord, obtains true honour, him, the Lord spontaneously blesses with the wealth of His Name.
Says Nanak, unto such a person, I am a sacrifice. Thou, O Lord, blesseth all with thine bounties.
When it so pleaseth Thee, O Lord, then am I sated and satiated.
My soul is pacified and all my thirst is quenched.
My mind has become peaceful, the burning has ceased and I have obtained a valuable treasure.
All the disciples and servants of the Guru partake of it and I am a sacrifice unto my True Guru.
Being imbued with the love of the by shaking off the fear of death.
Slave Nanak, loving embraces Thy meditation, O Lord. Thou ever keepest the company of Thy attendant.
O Lord, my hopes and desires have been fulfilled.
O Sire, I am without merits, all the merits are Thine.
Thou hast all the merits, O my Lord, with what mouth should I praise Thee?
Mine merits and demerits, Thou hast not considered at all and Thou hast pardoned me in a moment.
I have obtained the nine treasure and congratulations resound and unstruck trumpets. ring (with me).
Says Nanak, I have attained my Spouse at home, and all my anxieties are at an end.
Slok.
Why hearest thou the false talk? It shall vanish like the gust of wind.
Nanak, approved are the ears, which hear the Name of the True Master.
A melody.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who, with their ears, hear the Lord's Name.
Blissful and comfortable are they, who, with their tongue, utter the God's Name.
They are naturally embellished and posses priceless merits and they have come to save to world.
The Guru's feet are the ship, which has ferried many across the terrible world ocean.
They on whom is my Master's mercy, they are asked not to render their account.
Says Nanak, I am sacrifice unto them, who with their ears, hear the Lord's Name.
Slok.
With my eyes, I have seen the Lord's light, but my immense thirst to behold Him quenches not.
Nanak, different are those eyes, with which my Spouse is beheld.
Chhant.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who have seen my Lord God.
They are approved in the true Court.
Being approved by the Lord they are acclaimed as supreme and remain imbued with God's love.
They are, sated with the Lord's Nectar and merge into supreme bliss and the Omnipresent Lord, they behold in every heart.
They alone are the friendly saints and they are the cheerful beings, who are pleasing to their Lord.
Says Nanak, I am ever a sacrifice, unto those, who have seen their Lord Master.
Slok.
The body is totally blind and desolate without the Lord's Name.
Nanak, fruitful is his life, within whose heart abidest the True Master.
Chhant.
May I be cut into bits for them, who have seen my Lord God.
God's slaves are satiated by partaking of the Lord God's sweet Nectar.
God is sweet to their mind, unto them the Lord is merciful and upon them the Nectar rains and they attain peace.
Remembering God, the World-Lord, pain is removed from the body, doubt is dispelled and victory hails the mortal.
He is rid of worldly love, his sins are wiped off and he breaks away from the five passions.
Says, Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto him, within whose mind abides my Lord God.
Slok.
They who long for the Omnipresent Lord, are said to be His servants.
Nanak knows this truth, that the Lord is not different from His saint.
Chhant.
As water mixing with water, blends there with,
so merges the saints' light with supreme Light.
Merging into the pervading and powerful Creator, the mortal realises his own real self.
Then, he assumes trance into the Absolute Lord and utters the Name of the One Lord. alone.
Himself the Lord is unmanifest and Himself detached. Himself He utters His own praise.
Doubt, dread and the three moods of the Guru-ward are dispelled and like water, mingling with water, he blends with the Lord, O Nanak.
Wadhans 5th Guru.
The All-powerful Lord is the creator and the cause.
Giving His hand, He preserves the whole world.
Omnipotent, Refuge-worthy, Treasure of compassion and the Peace bestower is he, the Lord.
I am a sacrifice unto Thine slaves, who recoginse but the One Lord alone.
His colour and form cannot be deciphered and ineffable is His description
Prays Nanak, O Omnipotent Lord, Himself the Creator and the cause. hear Thou, my supplication.
These beings are thine. Thou art their Creator.
The Lord Master is the Destroyer of sorrow, pain and doubt.
O Lord, merciful to the meek, instantaneously destroy Thou my doubt, sorrow and pain and preserve me.
Thou art father, mother, and friend, O Lord, the World-Cherisher. the whole world is Thy child.
He, who seeks Thy refuge obtains the treasure of merits and suffers not transmigration, again.
Prays Nanak, I am a slave of Thine, O Lord and all the beings are Thine and Thou art their Creator.
By meditating on Lord God, night and day,
the mind-desired fruits are obtained.
Meditating on the Lord, the heart's desire is fulfilled and the fear of death is dispelled.
I sing the World-Lord's praise in the society of saints and my hopes are fulfilled.
Shedding our ego, worldly love and all the sins, we becomes acceptable to our Lord. mind.
Prays Nanak, let us ever meditate on our Lord God, day and night.
At the Lord's door unstruck melody resounds.
God, the Preserver of the world is vocal (abides) in every heart.
The Lord ever articulates and abides amongst all and He is unreachable, unfathomable and the most high.
Infinite are His merits, nothing of them can be described and none can reach Him.
The Lord Himself creates and Himself nourishes. All the sentient beings are fashioned by Him.
Prays Nanak, the bliss is in the meditation of the Name of the Lord, at whose door rings the celestial music.
Rag Wadhans 1st Guru. Elegies.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Blessed is the Creator, the True king, who has engages the world in its tasks.
when the time is over and the measure is full, this dear soul is caught and driven off.
When the writ is received, the dear soul is driven off and all the brethren bewail.
When mortal's days are at an end, the body and the swan soul are separated, O my mother.
As is the writ and as are his former acts, so obtains he.
Hail to the Creator, the True King, who has engaged the world in its task.
Remember the Lord, O my brethren. All have to go this way.
The false strife here is only for four (a few) days and then one assuredly proceeds onwards.
For sure, one proceeds into the Yond like a guest. Why should then one indulge in ego?
Repeat the Name of Him, by serving whom, thou shalt obtain peace in His court.
In the next world, in no wise can man's command run every one fares according to his acts.
Meditate on the Lord, O my brethren, for all shall have to go this way.
Whatever pleases the Omnipotent Lord, that alone comes to pass. This world is an opportunity to earn His pleasure.
The True Creator is pervading the ocean, the earth, the nether regions and the firmament.
The True Creator is invisible and infinite. His limit cannot be determined.
Fruitful is the advent of those who, singly-mindedly, contemplate over the Lord.
The Adorner, by His command demolishes and having demolished, Himself constructs.
Whatever pleases the All-powerful Lord, that happens. This world is an opportunity to earn His pleasure.
Says Nanak, O father, one is deemed to weep truly, if weeps in the Lord's love.
O father, the mortal bewails for the sake of worldly objects, therefore, all his bewailing is in vain.
All the weeping is in vain. The world is forgetful of the Lord and weeps for wealth.
Between good and evil, the mortal does not make any discrimination and wastes away this life in vain.
All those who come here shall go Hence false it is to act in pride.
Says Nanak, O father, a man is considered to wail truly, if he wails in the Lord's love.
Wadhans 1st Guru.
Come mates, let us meet and contemplate over the True Name.
Let us bewail over our body's (soul's) separation from the Lord and remember Him.
Let us cherish the Lord and keep an eye on the Path, We, too have to go there.
He, who created, also destroys All that taken place is in His will.
Whatever He has done, that has happened. How can we give the command?
Come and meet me, O maids; let us take the True Name.
O people, let us not call death bad. There is hardly any such person, Who knows how to die.
Serve, thou thy Omnipotent Lord. Thus, thy path in the Yond shall be easy to tread.
If thou go by the easy route, then shalt thou gather fruit and receive honour in the world beyond.
If thou go with the offering of meditation then shalt thou merge in the True Lord and thy honour will be approved.
Thou shalt obtain place in the Master's mansion be pleasing to Him and enjoy revelments with love.
if one knows how to die, O people then, death would not be called bad.
Fruitful is the dying of the brave persons, whose death is approved by the Lord. (die for a good cause).
Hereafter, they alone are acclaimed as warriors, who receive true honour in the Lord's court.
They depart with honour, obtain glory in the Lord's court and suffer not pain in the next world.
Deeming the Lord but One, they dwell upon Him and then gather reward. The Lord is such, by serving whom, the fear is dispelled.
Indulge thou not in ego and abide within thyself. The Knower Himself knows everything.
Profitable is the dying of the brave persons, whose death is approved by the Lord.
Says Nanak, whom should we wail for, a Sire, when this world is but a play?
The Lord watches His craftsmanship and gives throughout to His creation.
He, who has created the universe, gives thought to His creation. He, who has created, alone knows.
The Lord Himself sees, Himself understands and Himself realises He, His will.
He who has made all this deal, alone knows it, Infinite is His beauty.
Says Nanak, whom should we weep for, O father. This world is but a play.
Wadhans 1st Guru Dakhni.
Know the True Creator to be true. He is the True sustainer of all.
Invisible and Infinite is the True Lord, who Himself didst create His own being.
Creating the two mill-stones of the earth and the sky He has separated them. Without the Guru, there is pitch darkness.
The Lord created the sun and the moon. Realises that they are ever on the move.
True Thou art, O True Lord. Bless me with Thine true affection. Pause.
Thou it is who created the world and thou alone art the Giver of pain and pleasure.
Thou hast make woman and man as also the love of the poison of mammon and the temporal attachment.
The sources of creation and the power of speech are of Thine make and Thou givest them the true Support.
The Creation, Thou has made Thy throne and Thou alone art the true adjudicator.
Coming and going Thou hast ordained, but Thyself Thou art ever stable, O Creator.
In birth and death, coming and going, this soul is bound in sins.
The evil person has forgotten the Name. The drowned one! What remedy has he, now?
Forsaking merit, he, the trader of sin has loaded the poison of demerit.
By the True Creator's command, the beloved receives the call.
The soul spouse is separated from the body bride. Of the separated one, the Lord is the Uniter.
O Beauteous one, death cares not for beauty With the Commander's command the death's couriers are bound.
Between a child and an aged one, they (the yamas) distinguish not; they snap all love and affection.
The nine doors are closed by the True Lord's order and the swan-soul goes out into the skies.
The body bride is separated, defrauded by falsehood, she has become a widow and the dead body is lying at the door of, the compound.
The dead man's wife cries at the door: "with his death, O mother, my intellect is deadened".
O the Husband's brides, by remembering the True Lord's praise, shed thou the tears of His love.
The dear one is cleansed and bathed with water and is robed in good many silk clothes.
The bands play to the chanting of the True words. With numbed mind, the five kindreds feel like the dead.
Cries the wife, "separation of my beloved is death for me. Accursed is now my life in this world".
She, who, while alive, dies for the sake of the love of her true spouse, is deemed to live.
Wail ye, O women, who have come to wail, but false is the bewailing of the defrauded world.
I, a beguilded bride, am running after the worldly affairs. I practise the evil deeds of a spouseless wife and the Groom has forsaken me.
In every home, are the God Groom's brides: they regard with love and affection their Beauteous Groom.
Sing I the praise of my true Spouse and through the Spouse's Name, bloom I.
Meeting the Guru, the bride's raiment is changed, and she bedecks herself with Truth.
Come and meet me, my mates, let us contemplate over the Creator.
Through the Name, the bride becomes her Groom's favourite and the True Name is her adorner.
So sing not the elegies of separation, O Nanak Rather, meditate thou on the Lord's Name.
Wadhans 1st Guru.
He, who fashions and destroys the world, that Lord alone knows His omnipotence.
Seek not the True One far. Recognise thou, the Lord in every heart.
Know thou the True Lord and think Him not to be far, who has created this universe.
When man remembers the Name, then, gathers he, the bliss. Without the Name plays he, the losing game.
He, who establishes the creation, knows the way to sustain it. What can any one say and describe?
He, who has established the world and cast over it the net of mammon, accept Him as thy Master.
O father, having, come, man has to arise and go. This world is but a halt-way camp.
Reviewing their past actions, the True Lord, writes pain and pleasure in the destinies of all the individuals.
According to the deeds done, the Lord gives pain and pleasure and they last with the soul.
The mortal does such deeds, as the Creator makes him to do. He seeks no other job.
Himself the Lord is detached, but the world is involved in strifes. By His will, He does emancipate it.
Attached to duality, the man commits sins, Putting off Lord's meditation till to-day-eve or tomorrow, he is seized by death.
The death's path is dismal and utterly dark and the way cannot be discerned.
Neither water, quilt and mattress, nor various viands are found there.
There, the mortal receives neither food, honour and cold water, nor ornamental costume.
His neck is chained, death's courier standing over his head strikes him and he sees not home's door (a place for refuge).
The seeds sown on this path sprout not and carrying the load of sins on his head, he regrets.
Without the True Lord, none is man's friend. This alone is the true reflection.
O father, they alone are known to weep and wail truly, who meeting together, shed tears whilst uttering Lord's praise.
Defrauded by mammon and for the sake of worldly affairs, the bemoaners bemoan.
In the dreamy world, they weep for the world's affairs and wash not their filth.
As is the juggler engaged in his false play, so is the man taking pride in falsehood and illusion.
The Lord Himself is the Shower of path and Himself the Doer of deeds.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the Name, them, the Perfect Guru naturally protects.
Wadhans 1st Guru.
O friend, who-so-ever has come here, shall arise and depart. This world is but a false show.
The true home, man obtains by serving the True Lord, and the real righteousness by becoming truthful.
When through falsehood and avarice, man becomes not acceptable here, he finds no refuge hereafter, either.
None says to him "come in Sir and be seated". He is like a crow in a deserted home.
Involved in birth and death one is separated from the Lord, for long. thus is the whole world wasted away.
Avarice, worldly strifes and wealth beguile the world. Standing over its head, death makes it bewail.
Come, O my friends and brothers and meeting me, take me in your arms and bless me.
O friend, pray for my union with my Beloved. The union with the True Lord sunders never.
Bless me, that I may perform my Lord's devotional service. Of the already united ones, what more is to be united?
Some have strayed away from the Name and the real path. Tell them to play the true game by Guru's instruction.
Let them not tread Death's path, they should remain merged in the Lord, who, in all the ages, has the true From.
It is through good fortune that we meet such friends and relations, who meeting with the Guru, have loosened the Death's noose.
O father mortal comes into the world, all-naked, subject to the recorded writ of pain and pleasure.
The destiny's writ, which is in accordance with the past deeds, cannot be altered.
Sitting down, the True Lord, writes of Nectar and poison and the man attaches to, with which the Lord, him attaches.
The mammon sorcerer works her sorcery and puts multi-coloured thread around every one's neck.
With the shallow intellect, mind becomes shallow and one eats fly too alongwith the sweets.
All-naked, against the social custom, the mortal comes into the world and naked is the bound down and despatched.
O friend, weep if some one must weep, as the beloved soul is goaded on bound down.
The Lord's writ cannot be erased. The summons have come from the Lord's court.
The messenger comes, when it pleases Him and the mourners begin to weep.
Wail, the sons, brothers, nephews and the very dear intimates.
None dies with the dead. Blessed is he, who cherishing the Lord's merits, weeps in His fear.
Nanak, they who wail by remembering the True Lord, are deemed wise all the ages through.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Praise thou the True Lord God. He is Omnipotent to do all the affairs.
That bride sits not as a widow ever and never suffers she any sorrow.
The bride abides in her Lord's mansion, She suffers not sorrow ever and, night and day, she enjoys bliss.
She, who knows her Beloved, the Destiny Builder, utters the Nectar sweet words.
The virtuous brides, who remember their Spouse and think of His merits, suffer not separation from Him, ever.
Eulogise thou, thy True Groom, who is Omnipotent to do all the things.
The True Lord is realized through the Guru's instruction and He Himself blends man with His ownself.
That bride is deemed imbued with the love of her spouse, who banishes her self- conceit from within herself
Eradicating ego from within death devours her not again, and through the Guru, she knows the Lord alone.
The bride's desire is fulfilled, her core is drenched with the Lord's love and she meets with the Beneficent Lord, the Life of the world.
She is imbued with the Name's affection, is inerbriated with youth and merges into her spouse's person.
The true Lord is realised through His Name and them he unites the mortal with Himself.
To those saints, who have realized their Spouse, I go to ask about my Lord.
Eschewing my ego, I serve them, Thus shall the True spouse meet me automatically.
The bride practises truth and is imbued with the True Name, The True Groom comes and meets her.
Never becomes she a widow and ever remains a happy wife. In her mind she obtains the celestial trance.
The Spouse is fully pervading all. Seeing Him close at hand, she automatically enjoys His love.
The saints who have recognised their Groom, then I go to ask about my Lord.
The separated ones also meet their Spouse, If they fall at the True Satguru's feet.
The True Guru is ever merciful and by his instruction, one's demerits, are burnt to ashes.
Burring her demerits with the Guru's teaching, she forsakes duality and remains absorbed in the True Lord alone.
By the True Name, everlasting peace is obtained and self-conceit and doubt are dispelled.
The Immaculate Spouse is ever the Giver of peace and though the Guru's instruction is He meet, O Nanak.
The separated brides also meet their Lord, if they repair to the feet of the True Satguru.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
Hear ye, O the Husband brides, serve thou thy Beloved and reflect over His Name.
The meritless wife knows not her spouse and is beguiled. Forgetting her Groom, she continues wailing.
Thinking of her Spouse and ever cherishing His merits, the virtuous wife weeps with joy. Her spouse dies not, nor goes anywhere.
Through the Guru, the Lord is known, through the Name is He realised and through True love one merges in Him.
The false bride, who knows not her spouse, the Scribe of destiny, is beguiled by falsehood.
Hearken, O the brides of the Groom, serve your Beloved and meditate on His Name.
Himself the Lord has created the whole world and the mortal is subject to coming and going.
The love of wealth has ruined her and she dies and is born, again and over again.
She dies and is born again and again, her sins increase and without gnosis, she is beguiled.
Without the Name, she attains not her Spouse and wastes away her life. So the virtueless, false woman bewails.
My Beloved being the Life of the world, who is there then to grieve for? Let them alone wail who forget their husband.
The entire universe and the coming and going of the mortal, the Lord Himself has created.
True, ever true is that Spouse. He dies not, nor does He go.
The ignorant bride goes astray and through duality, having lost her Lord, sits like a widow.
Through another's love she sits like a widow, through mammon's attachment she suffers pain, her age is diminishing and the body is withering.
Whatever is come, all that shall depart and on account of the worldly love the man suffers pain.
The man perceives not death's courier, longs for riches and attaches his mind to greed and avarice.
True, ever true is the Spouse and He dies, not, nor does He go away.
Separated from their Spouse, some brides bewail. Those blind ones know not that their Spouse is with them.
By Guru's grace, the True Groom is met with and the wife ever cherishes Him in her mind.
Deeming Him to be ever with her, she cherishes her Spouse in her mind. The apostates think He is far.
This body of the bride, who realises, not her Husband's presence, rolls in dust and is of no avail.
Nanak, the bride, who in her mind, ever cherishes her Beloved, united, by Him, unites with Him.
Separated from their Spouse, some brides bewails, but those blind ones know not that their Spouse is with them.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
Separated from their Beloved, others bewail, but my True Spouse is ever with me.
They, who know that depart they must, serve the True Guru and meditate on the Name.
Deeming the True Guru to be with them, they ever remember the Name and attain peace by serving the Guru.
Through the Name, they slay death and keep the True Lord clasped to their heart. They come and go not, again.
True is the Lord and true is His Name. By His kind glance the mortal is enraptured.
Separated from their Beloved others bemoan, but my True Spouse is ever with me.
My Lord Master is the highest of all; how can I meet my Beloved Lord?
When the True Guru united me, I then easily got united with my Spouse and Him I now keep clasped to my heart.
I ever cherish my Beloved in my heart with love. It is through the True Guru that I see my Beloved.
False is the cloak of mammon's attachment and wearing that, the foot of the mortal slips.
True is the cloak, that is dyed in the Beloved's colour (love). Wearing it the inner thirst is quenched.
My Lord Master is the highest of all; how can I meet with my dear Beloved?
I have realised my True Lord while the other impious ones have gone astray.
I ever think of my Love and ponder over the True Name.
The bride reflects on the True Name, is imbued with her Lord's love and meeting with the True Guru, attains to her Beloved.
Her heart is imbued with the Lord's love, she is absorbed in glee and her enemies and anguishes are all dispelled.
If thou surrender thy body and mind to the Guru, thy soul, then, shall become happy and thy desire and pain shall be eliminated.
I have recognised my True Spouse while the other meritless ones are gone astray.
The True Lord has Himself created the world, Without the Guru, there is pitch darkness.
The Lord Himself makes man meet, Himself meets him and Himself blessed him with His love.
The Lord Himself blessed man with His love, and then he deals in Divine Knowledge and reforms his human life, through the Guru.
Blessed is his advent in this world, who banishes his self conceit. He is acclaimed as true in the True court.
Within his mind shines the light of the jewel of Divine knowledge and he bears love to the Lord's Name, O Nanak.
The True Lord has Himself created the world, but without the Guru, there is appalling darkness.
Wadhans 3rd Guru.
Frail is this body and the old age shall creep upon it.
They, whom the Guru protects, are saved while others die, are born and continue coming and going.
Others die, are born again and transmigrate and while departing grieve in the end. Without the Name, they obtain not peace.
What the mortal does here, that bears fruit. The way-ward loses his honour.
In the abode of death are terrible darkness and excessive dust. Neither sister nor brother is there.
Frail is this body and the old age creeps upon it.
If the True Guru unites me with Himself then shall my body become gold.
Doubt and love for mammon have been removed from within me and I have merged in the True Name.
I am absorbed in the True Name, I sing God's praise and meeting my Love, gather peace.
Day and night I ever remain happy and from within me pride is dispelled.
I fall at the feet of the persons, who enshrine in their mind God's Name.
If the True Guru unites me with himself, then, my body shall become gold.
If the True Guru imparts understanding, then the mortals verily praises the True Lord.
Without the True Guru they stray in doubt. What face shall they show going hereafter.
What face shall they show in the next world? They will grieve for their sins and earn nothing but anguish.
Deep red is the complexion of those who are imbued with the Name. They blend with their spouse's person.
As great as He, I can think of no other, To whom else shall I go and cry?
If the True Guru imparts understanding the mortal then verily praises the True Lord.
They, who praise the Truest of the True, I fall at their feet.
True and pure are those persons and meeting them, all the filth is washed off.
Meeting them, the entire dust is removed, the man bathes in the Name's true tank and automatically becomes truthful.
The True Guru has made me realise the Name of the Immaculate, Unreachable and Unperceivable Lord.
Imbued with love, they who, night and day, perform True Lord's devotional service, O Nanak, get absorbed in Him.
I fall at the feet of those, who meditate on the Truest of the True.
Eulogy of Rag Wadhans. 4th Guru. To be sung to the tune of Lallan Bahleeman.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Slok 3rd Guru.
They, who are imbued with the Divine word and enshrine the true Name in their heart, are the great swans.
They amass truth, ever abide in truth and enshrine affection for the True Name.
For ever they are Pure, no filth sticks to them and on them is the Creator's grace.
Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto them who, night and day, contemplate on God, the Enemy of pride.
3rd Guru.
I though he was a great swan, so I associated with him.
Had I known, he was only a wretched heron, from the very beginning, I would not have associated with him.
3rd Guru.
Seeing the swans swim, even the herons developed a desire to swim.
The poor herons got drowned to death and they lay with their head below and feet above.
Pauri.
Thou art all by Thyself, O Lord and Thyself Thou hast created the world.
O formless Lord, Thou art all by Thyself and without Thee, there is not another second.
Thou art Omnipotent to do all the deeds and what Thou doest, that comes to pass.
Thou givest unasked for bounties to all the beings.
Let all say "Blest! blest! blest! is the True Guru, who has given me the supreme gift of the Lord's Name".
Slok 3rd Guru.
The entire creation is in the Lord's fear and that adorable God alone is fear free.
Serving the True Guru, the Lord abides in the man's mind; there, then fear can never stay.
The enemy and anguish draw not near him and none can even touch him.
The Guru-ward in his mind, dwells on the Lord and realises that whatever pleases Him, that alone comes to Pass.
Nanak, the Lord Himself preserves man's honour and He alone resolves the affairs.
3rd Guru.
Some of my friends are leaving some have already left and the remaining ones too shall ultimately depart.
They, who serve not the True Guru, regret their coming and going.
Nanak, they, who are imbued with the True Name, separate not through the True Guru's service, they merge into the Lord.
Pauri.
Meet thou with that True Guru, the friend, in whose mind the efficacious God abides.
Meet thou with the dear True Guru, who has stilled ego from within himself.
Blest! blest! is the perfect True Guru, who, by counseling God's service, has reformed the whole world.
O Saints, ever meditate on the Lord's Name, that you may be ferried across the poisonous, dreadful world ocean.
The Perfect Guru has instructed me in the Lord and unto the Guru, I am ever a sacrifice.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The service of and obedience to the True Guru, is the essence of the comfort of comforts.
Through it, the man obtains honour here and door of salvation in the Lord's court.
He performs the True task, wears Truth and has the support of the True Name.
Through the True association, he obtains Truth and he comes to love the True Name.
Through the True Name, he ever abides in bliss and is acclaimed true in the True court.
Nanak, he alone performs the True Guru's grace service, to whom the Creator shows mercy.
3rd Guru.
Accursed is the life and accursed the abode of those who perform the service of any other.
They abandon nectar, turn to poison, earn poison, and poison is their stock in trade.
Poison is their food, poison their dress and the morsels of poison they put in their mouth.
Here they earn nothing but pain and, on dying, they dwell in hell.
The perverse have unclean countenances, they realise not the Name and die of lust and wrath.
They forsake the fear of the True Guru, and their business succeeds not on account of their mind's obstinacy.
In the death's city, they are bound and beaten and no one hears their supplication.
Nanak, they act according to their primal destiny and, through the Guru, they abide in the Name.
Pauri.
O saintly persons, serve that True Guru, who implants Lord God's Name within man's mind.
Day and night worship the True Guru, who makes man remember the Lord of the universe and the Master of the world.
Ever moment behold thou, that True Guru, who shows the Divine path of the Lord.
Let all fall at the feet of that True Guru, who has dispelled the darkness of worldly love.
Let all the men hail, hail that True Guru, who has made man find the treasure of God's meditation.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Meeting with the True Guru hunger departs but by wearing deceptive garbs the worldly hunger departs not.
Infested with the pain of hunger, the man wanders from house to house and hereafter, he obtains tow fold punishment.
Contentment enters not his mind that he may eat, with contentment what he obtains.
From whom-so-ever he begs, he begs with his mind's pertness and he takes by causing annoyance to his giver.
To be a house holder, who at least gives to some, is better than this wearing deceptive robe.
They who are imbued with the Name, acquire understanding while others go astray in doubt.
They act according to their past action, it is of no use to address them.
Nanak they alone are good, who are pleasing to the Lord and whose honour He upholds.
3rd Guru.
Serving the True Guru, the mortal is ever in peace, and his pain of birth and death is removed.
Anxiety visits him not at all and the care free Lord comes to abide in his mind.
Within him is the sacred shrine of Divine knowledge, which the True Guru is revealed to him.
Bathing in the tank of Nectar of the sacred shrine, filth is removed and his soul becomes stainless.
Through love of the True Name, the friend meets with God, the Friend.
within his home, he obtains Divine knowledge and his light blends with the Supreme Light.
The Death's courier leaves not an hypocrite, and dishonouring him, goads him on.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the Name are saved and with the True Lord, they bear love.
Pauri.
Go and sit in the society of saints where Lord God's Name is churned (meditated upon).
Remember thou the God's Name with composure, that thou mayest not lose God, the Essence.
Day and night repeat ever repeats God's Name, that thou myest find protection in God's court.
He alone obtains the perfect True Guru, on whose forehead and brow such a writ is written since the very beginning.
Let us all pay homage to that Guru who utters the Divine sermon of the Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The friends, who love the true Guru, meet with God, the Friend.
Meeting the dear Satguru, they reflect on the Lord with true love and affection.
Their mind is propitiated by the mind itself, through the peerless hymns of the Guru.
These friend, whom the Creator has united with Himself, separate not, after uniting.
Some believe not in the efficacy of seeing the Guru's sight and reflect not over the Name.
O the separated ones, who bear love to duality, what more can be separated?
The friendship with the apostates lasts only for a short period of four days.
No delay occurs in the breaking of this affection and this friendship leads to many sins.
They who in their mind, fear not the True Lord and love not the Name,
O Nanak, why make friendship with them, whom the Creator Himself has strayed.
3rd Guru.
Some who ever remain imbued with the one Lord's love, I am ever a sacrifice unto them.
Dedicate, I my body, soul and wealth unto them and, bowing low fall at their feet.
Meeting them, the soul is satiated and man's desire and hunger all depart.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the Name, ever remain happy and on the True Lord, they fix their attention.
Pauri.
A sacrifice am I unto the Guru, who reads out to me the Divine sermon of God.
I am ever devoted unto that Guru, who has designed to engage me in God's service.
That Beloved True Guru is with me and gets me delivered wherever I may be.
Blessed indeed is the Guru, who has imparted unto me the Divine understanding.
Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto the Guru, who has given me the Lord's Name and thus fulfilled my hearts desire.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Consumed by desire, the world is burnt to death, It burns, burns and bewails.
If the peace-giving True Guru meets, it burns not, again, a second time.
Nanak, without the Name and unless one reflects upon the Guru's hymns, none becomes fearless.
3rd Guru.
Wearing deceptive dress, the fire quenches not and anxiety continues to abide in the mind.
As the destruction of snake's hole, kills not the snake, so is useless the doing of deeds without the Guru.
By serving the beneficent True Guru, the Name comes to abide in man's mind.
The mind and body are comforted and pacified and the fire of desire is extinguished.
When man banishes self-conceit from within him, he obtains the supreme comfort of all the comforts for ever and aye.
By Guru's grace, he alone becomes detached, who fixes his attention on the True Lord.
He feels not worried at all and with the Lord's Name, he remains sated and satisfied.
Nanak, without the Name, man is delivered not and is utterly ruined by egotism.
Pauri.
They, who utter the Lord Master's Name, obtain all the comforts.
Fruitful is the entire life of those, who, in their mind. feel the urge for the Lord's Name.
They, who through Guru's instruction, meditate on God, forget all their troubles.
Sublime are those saints, the Guru's disciples, who care not a bit for any one, other than God.
Blessed! blessed! is their Guru, whose mouth tastes the ambrosial fruit of God's Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
In the Dark age, Death's courier is the enemy of life and he works according to the Lord's will.
They, whom the Guru saves are saved and to the way-ward, he awards punishment.
The world is in the power and bondage of death's myrmidon and none can hold him.
Under Guru's instruction serve thou, Him, who has created death and then no grief shall befall thee.
Nanak, death serves the pious persons, in whose mind the True Lord abides.
3rd Guru.
Without the Name, this body is filled with the malady of ego and the pain of the malady departs not.
When man meets with the True Guru, then does he becomes immaculate and enshrines the God's name within his mind.
Nanak, he ponders over the peace-giving Name and he anguish is automatically removed.
Pauri.
I am ever a sacrifice unto the Guru, who has preached to me the meditation of God, the life of the world.
I am a sacrifice, each bit, unto the Guru, the Lover of Nectar, who has recited to me the Name of God.
I am a sacrifice, unto the Guru, who has wholly cured the fatal affliction of egotism.
Great is the merit of the True Guru, who has eradicated evil and instructed me in the virtue.
That true Guru meets with them alone, on whose forehead, the supreme good fortune is recorded.
Slok 3rd Guru.
They alone, who remain, dead in life, perform Lord's service. It is through the Guru, that Lord's service is ever performed.
Them the Lord blesses with the treasure of devotion, which no one can destroy.
Within their mind, they obtain the Treasure of virtue, the unique True Lord.
Nanak, the Guru-wards remain united with the Lord and they separate not, ever, again.
3rd Guru.
He, who serves not the True Guru, how can he reflect over the Name?
The fool strays in sin and knows not the worth of the Guru's hymns.
The blind ignorant mortal performs many rituals and loves duality.
The, who, without cause, take pride on themselves, them, the death's courier punished and humiliates.
Nanak, whom else is the mortal to ask, when the Lord Himself is the Pardoner?
Pauri.
Thou, O Creator, knowest everything and all the living beings are Thine.
He whom Thou likest, him, thou unitest with Thyself O Lord. What can the poor creatures do?
Thou, O True Creator, art Omnipotent to do all the deeds.
He, whom Thou unitest, O Beloved unites with Thee, by meditating on Thee. through the Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto my true Guru, who has made me discern my undiscernible Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Who is the assayer of the Name jewel, he alone reflects upon the Name jewel.
Spiritually ignorant and totally blind man knows not the worth of the Name jewel.
The jewel is the Gurbani and the knower alone knows its worth.
The fools pride on their self and they are distressed in coming and going.
Nanak, he alone obtains the Name jewel, who enshrines affection for the Exalted Guru.
Ever, ever in utters God's Name and in God's Name he daily deals.
If God shows His mercy, then alone can I keep Him enshrined within my mind.
3rd Guru.
They who serve not the True Guru and embrace not love for the God's Name.
Them, thou deem not alive, the Creator, Himself has destroyed them.
Pride is a serious malady and it makes man do deeds for the love of another.
Nanak, the apostates are dead even whine alive and forgetting the Lord, they come to grief.
Pauri.
All make obeisance unto the man, whose heart is pure from within.
He, within whose mind is the Name treasure, unto that man, I am a sacrifice.
He, who has discerning intellect in his mind, meditates on the Name of God, the Enemy of ego.
That True Guru is the friend of all and every one is dear unto him.
When I think over with the Guru-given wisdom, I discern the Omnipresent soul pervading everywhere.
Slok 3rd Guru.
without serving the True Guru, the deeds done in ego, are like the chains of the soul.
Without serving the True Guru, man finds no place of rest. He dies, is reborn and continues coming and going.
Without the True Guru's service insipid is man's speech and the Name abides not in his mind.
Nanak, without the True Guru's service, the mortals arise and depart with blackened face and are bound and beaten in the city of death.
1st Guru.
Burn such ceremonial custom, by which I may forget my Beloved.
Nanak, sublime is the love which builds my honour with the Lord.
Pauri.
Serve thou the one Beneficent Lord and dwell thou the Lord alone.
Beg thou only of one Beneficent God and obtain thy heart desired boons.
If thou beggest of another, then, thou shalt be shamed and destroyed.
He, who serves the Lord obtains the fruit and all the hunger of that person is sated.
Nanak is a sacrifice unto those, who in their mind, night and day, meditate on the God's Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
My Beloved is Himself merciful to the holy men. His slaves, He attaches with Himself.
The Lord blesses the devoted persons with kingship and for their head He, the Lord, makes the true crown.
They are ever at ease and immaculate and perform the true Guru's service.
They are not said to the Kings who die in strife and then go round in existences.
Nanak, without the Name, they wander about nose-shorn in disgrace and receive not honour at all.
3rd Guru.
Hearing the instruction, man, relishes it not, so long as he is not attached to the Gurbani, through the Guru.
Serving the True Guru the Name abides in the man's mind and doubt and dread flee from within him.
As the mortal deems the true Guru to be, so becomes he and then alone he comes to enshrine affection for the True Name.
Nanak through the Name, he attains honour and looks beauteous in the God's court hereafter.
Pauri.
Within the mind of the Guru's disciples is God's love and they come and worships the Guru.
In the Lord's Name, they deal with love, and depart after earning the reward of the Lord's Name.
Bright are the faces of the Guru's Sikhs and they are approved in the God's Court.
The great True Guru is the treasure of the Lord's Name and the very fortunate Gur-sikhs share this treasure of virtue with him.
I am a sacrifice unto those Guru's Sikhs, who, sitting and standing, meditate upon the Lord's Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Nanak, the Name is a treasure and, through the Guru, it is obtained.
The blind apostates know not the article that is in the home and die barking and wailing.
3rd Guru.
Immaculate is he golden body, which is attached to the true Name of the True Lord.
Through the Guru, it obtains the pure Lord of bright Light and its fears and doubts are dispelled.
Nanak, the Guru wards ever attain peace and, night and day, they remain imbued with the love of Lord.
Pauri.
Blessed, blessed are those Gur-sikhs who, their ears, hear the Divine sermon of the Guru.
The great True Guru implants the Name in them, and that stills their ego and duality.
Without God's Name, there is no other friend. God's slaves have pondered over it and realised.
The Guru's disciples, with whom the Lord is pleased, they accept the True Guru's word.
The Guru-wards who meditate on the Name, they are imbued with the four-fold colour of Lord's love.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The perverse person, bereft, of the Name, is cowardly, ugly and noseless (sans honour).
Night and day, he is engrossed in worldly affairs and gets not peace even in his dream.
Nanak if he is resigned to Guru's will, then, is he saved, otherwise, he is bound and suffers pain.
3rd Guru.
The pious ever look beauteous in the Lord's court and they practise the Guru's word.
Within them is lasting peace and comfort and they receive honour in the True-Lord's court.
Nanak, Guru-wards are blessed with the God's Name and they easily merge in he True One.
Pauri.
Through the Guru Prahlad contemplated on God and obtained salvation.
By Guru's grace, Janak embraced affection for God's Name.
By Guru's grace, Washishat preached the Lord's sermon.
Without the Guru, none has obtained the Lord's Name O my brother.
It is through the Guru, that God blesses man with His devotional service.
Slok 3rd Guru.
He, who has no faith in the True Guru, and enshrines not affection for the Name.
Peace accrues not to him, even thou he may come and go hundreds of times.
Nanak, contracting love with the True Lord, the Guru ware easily meets with him.
3rd Guru.
O man, search thou such a True Guru, by serving whom the pain of birth and death is dispelled.
Then doubt shall never befall thee and thy egotism shall be burnt through the Name.
The screen of falsehood shall be torn off from within thee and truth shall come and abide in thy mind.
By doing deeds in accordance with the ways of truth there shall be peace and comfort in thy mind.
Nanak, by perfect destiny the true Guru is met and then the sire Lord of His own sweet will blesses man with His mercy.
Pauri,
He, in whose home, God, the Lord, abides under his sway comes the whole world.
He bears subservience to none and God, the ruler, makes all fall at his feet.
One can run away and flee from men's courts, but where can one go out of the Lord's kingdom?
He is such God, the King who abides in the saints' mind that bringing all the remaining ones, He has make them stand before the saints.
The glory of God's Name is obtained through His grace, Only a few Guru-wards meditate on Him.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Without serving the True Guru, the men are dead and they waste their life in vain.
In duality, they suffer severe pain, die, are born again and continue coming and going.
They abide in ordure and are cast into existences again and again.
Nanak, without the Name, the death's courier punishes them and they ultimately depart repenting.
3rd Guru.
In this world there is but one Spouse; the rest, all others are His brides.
He enjoys within the mind of all and yet remains separate from them. He is invisible and cannot be comprehended.
The Perfect Guru shows Him, and through the Guru's hymns, we realise Him.
They, who serve the Perfect Lord, through the Name, burn their egotism, and themselves become perfect.
He has no rival, no molester and no enemy.
Ever immovable is His empire and he neither comes nor goes.
Night and day, the servant perform His service and sings the praise of the True Lord.
Beholding the greatness of the True God, Nanak has bloomed.
Pauri.
They within whose mind God's Name ever abides, God's Name becomes their saviour.
God's Name is my father, name my mother and God's Name is my helper and friend.
With God's Name is my conversation, with the God's Name my counsel, and the God's Name ever takes care of me.
The Lord's Name is my extremely dear society, the Lord's Name is my lineage and the Lord's Name my family.
Unto slave Nanak, the image of God, the Guru, has conferred the Lord's Name. The Lord ever redeems me in this world and the world beyond.
Slok 3rd Guru.
They, whom the True Guru meets, ever engage in singing the Lord's praise.
God's Name automatically abides in their mind and, in the True Name, they are absorbed.
They save their lineage and themselves obtain the status of salvation.
The Exalted Lord is pleased with the persons, who fall at the Guru's feet.
Attendant Nanak, is the Lord's slave, and by His grace, God preserves his honour.
3rd Guru.
In pride, man is overtaken by fear, In utter commotion he passes his life.
Pride is a great malady because of which, he dies, is re-born and continues coming and going.
They, who are so pre-ordained, them, the Lord-incarnate Satguru comes and meets.
Nanak, they age redeemed by Guru's grace and burn their egotism through the Name.
Pauri.
God's Name is my immortal, incomprehensible, imperishable and Omnipotent Creator-Lord.
God's Name I remember, God's Name I worship and with the God's Name my soul is imbued.
I know not of any other so great as God's Name. God's Name shall deliver me in the end.
The beneficent Guru has given me the God's Name. Blessed! blessed are Guru's father and mother.
I, ever bow before my True Guru, meeting whom, I have realised the Lord's Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
He, who serves not the Holy Guru, embraces not affection for the Lord's Name,
and enjoys not the relish of the Guru's hymns, transmigrates over and over again.
The blind infidel meditates not on the Lord. why did he come into this word?
Nanak, to whom the Lord shows mercy, they, through the Guru, ferry across the world ocean.
3rd Guru.
The Guru alone is awake. The rest of the world is asleep in worldly love and desire.
They, who are imbued with the virtues, ever serve the True Guru and remain wakeful.
The blind apostates remember not the Lord and in births and deaths, they are ruined.
Nanak, through the Guru, they alone reflect over the Name, in whose lot it is so pre-ordained by the Primal Lord.
Pauri.
God's Name is
God's Name is my raiment, wearing which I shall never be naked again and my desires to wear aught else be destroyed.
The Lord's Name is my trade, the Lord's Name my commerce and the employment of the Lord's Name, the True Guru has blessed me with.
I record the account of the Lord's Name and my entire future subservience to death is annulled.
It is by Guru's grace, that some, who are the recipients of God's benevolence and who are so ordained, meditate on the Lord's Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The world is ignorant and blind and it is engaged in other's love (false pursuits).
All those acts that the man performs through duality, lead to pain which swiftly stick to his body.
By Guru's grace, peace is produced, when the mortal meditates on the Guru's word.
He does the deeds enjoined by the True Gurbani, and night and day, remembers the Name.
Nanak, he engages in what is God Himself engages him. He has no say in the matter.
3rd Guru.
In my home is the everlasting treasure of the Name, as also the brimful store of devotion.
The True Guru is the giver of spiritual life and He, the donor, ever lives.
Through the infinite hymns of the Guru, night and day, I, ever, sing the praise of the Lord.
Ever recite I the hymns of the Guru, whose will works all the ages through.
This soul of mine ever abides in peace and in contentment, deals in the Lord's Name.
Within me is the Guru-given gnosis of the Lord, the Gem, which does emancipated me.
Nanak, he unto whom God shows favour, he obtains this gift and he is adjudged true in the Lord's court.
Pauri.
Blest! blest! is accounted that Gursikh, who, from his mouth, utters the Name of the Lord God.
Blessed! blessed! is accounted that Gursikh, whose soul is pleased by hearing the Lord's Name.
Blessed! blessed! is said to be that Gursikh, who by serving the True Guru, obtains the Lord's Name.
Blessed! blessed!
I ever make obeisance unto that Gur-sikh, who treads in the Guru's path.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Through mind's obstinacy, none has obtained the Lord. All have grown weary by engaging themselves in such acts.
By mind's obstinacy and assuming false forms they are deluded and hence suffer pain through the love of another.
Riches and miracles are all worldly attachment and hence the Name come not to abide in the mind.
By the Guru's service, the soul is rendered immaculate and the darkness of spiritual ignorance is dispelled.
The Name jewel becomes manifest in the man's mind home, and he merges in celestial bliss, O Nanak.
3rd Guru.
He, who relishes not the Divine word, enshrines not affection for the Lord's Name,
and with his tongue utters insipid worlds he is ruined for ever and ever.
Nanak, he acts according to his past actions which no one can erase.
Pauri.
Blessed! blessed! is my Satguru, the True person, meeting whom I have obtained peace.
Blessed! blessed! is my Satguru, the person, meeting whom I have attained the Lord's meditation.
Auspicious! auspicious! is my True Guru, the Lord's devotee, serving whom I have come to profess love for the God's Name.
Sublime, sublime is my True Guru, the Lord's divine, who has made me see the foe and friend with the same-eye.
Praiseworthy! praiseworthy! is the True Guru, my friend, who has make me embrace love for the Lord's Name.
Slok 1st Guru.
The bride is at home, her Groom is abroad and ever she remembers His and pines away.
She shall have no delay in meeting her groom, if she rids, her intention of duality.
1st Guru.
Nanak, false is the talk in which the man, bereft of Lord's love, engages himself.
So long as the Lord gives and he receives, till then, the mortal deems good as good.
Pauri.
The Lord who fashioned the creatures, that Lord protects them too.
I have partaken of the fare of the ambrosial True Name.
I am sated and satiated and my desire to eat is stilled.
The One Lord pervades amongst all, but rare alone realises this thing.
Seeking the protection of the Lord slave Nanak is enraptured.
Slok 3rd Guru.
All the mortals, that there are, of the world, behold the true Guru.
By merely seeing the Guru, one is not emancipated, until one reflects not on the Guru's hymns.
His filth of ego is removed not, nor is the love for the Name implanted.
Some, the Lord forgives and unites with Himself. They forsake another's love and sin.
Nanak, some, seeing the Satguru's sight with love and affection and killing their self, meet the Lord.
3rd Guru.
The stupid and blind clown serves not the True Guru.
Through duality he suffers great pain and bewails burning therein.
The objects for whose sake he forsake the Guru, they come not to his rescue in the end.
By the Guru's instruction Nanak has attained peace and Lord, the Pardoner, has pardoned him.
Pauri.
Thou, by Thyself, alone art the Creator of all. Had there been a second, only then I would have talked about another.
God Himself utters, Himself makes us utter and He Himself is pervading the ocean and the earth.
God Himself destroys and God Himself delivers. So, O my soul, remain thou lying under God's protection.
Without God none can kill or animate. Therefore, O my soul, be unanxious and abide fearlessly.
Standing, sitting and sleeping for ever and aye, remember thou God's Name and attain to God through the Guru, O slave Nanak.
There is but One God. True is His Name and creative His personality He is without tear, without enmity, immortal in from, beyond birth and self-existent. by Guru's grace He is obtained.
Sorath 1st Guru. Chaupadas.
Death come to all and all must suffer separation.
go and ask the wise whether the mortals shall meet hereafter or not.
They, who forget my Lord, shall suffer great pain.
Ever praise thou that True Lord,
by whose grace peace ever prevails. Pause.
Deeming His great sing thou His praise. He is and shall ever be.
Thou alone art the Beneficent Lord of all. A man cannot make any gift.
Whatever pleases Him, that takes place. What can wailing like a woman achieve?
Good many have departed after having proclaimed sovereignty over millions of fortresses on earth.
They, whom the sky could not contain, had ropes put through their noses.
O man, wert thee to remember the prickles (future torments). why shoudest thee relish the sweet (lure of sins).
Nanak as many as are the sins, so many are the chains around man's neck.
If he possesses virtues, then his chains are cut off, those his brothers.
Reaching Yond, they, who are without the Guru, are not accepted. They are beaten and expelled.
Sorath 1st Guru.
Make thy mind the plough-man, good deed the farming, modesty the water and thy body the field.
Let Lord's Name be thy seed, contentment the earth-crusher and garb of humility thy fence.
Doing deeds of love, the seed shall germinate and flourishing then thou shalt see such a home.
O sire, wealth goes not with the man.
This mammon has bewitched the world and some rare person understands this. Pause.
Make the ever-decreasing age thy ship and make the Lord's True Name thy merchandise.
Make understanding and meditation thy ware-house and in that ware-house, put thou the True Name.
Having dealings with the Lord's dealers and gaining the profit rejoice in thy mind.
Let the hearing of scriptures be thy trade and truth the horses, thou takest to sell.
Tip up merits for thy travelling expenses and in thy mind think thou not of to-morrow.
when thou shalt arrive in the land of the Formless Lord, then, shalt thou obtain peace at His palace.
Make the fixing of attention thy service and faith in the Name city occupation.
Make the restraint of sins thy effort and then alone shall people call thee blessed.
Nanak, the Lord shall then look on thee with favour and thou shalt be imbued with fourfold honour.
Sorath 1st Guru. Chautukas.
To mother and father their son is dear and to the father-in-law the wise son-in-law.
To the boy and girl, their father is very sweet and to a brother, the brother.
On the issuing of Lord's command the mortal leaves home for abroad and in a moment everything becomes alien.
An apostate remember not the Name, gives not in charity, takes not the bath and so his body rolls in dust.
With God's Name, the succour, my soul is comforted.
I repair to the Guru's feet and am a sacrifice unto him, who has imparted to me the true understanding. Pause.
The self-willed persons is impressed with the false love of the world and picks up quarrel with the Lord's slave.
All-absorbed in riches, day and night, he spies its path, utters not the Name and dies by taking poison.
Imbued with the vicious talk, he has been enamoured by it and thinks not of he Name.
He is neither imbued with the Lord's love, nor is he impressed with the Name's relish. So the infidel loses his honour.
In the saints society, he enjoys not Divine equanimity and in His tongue there is not even an iota of sweetness.
The mind, body and wealth, he deems as his own and has no knowledge of the Lord's court.
Closing his eyes, he walks in darkness and sees not his hearth and home, O brother.
Bound down at death's door, he finds no place of rest and reaps the fruit of his actions.
When the Lord casts His merciful glance, then I see with my own eyes Him, the Ineffable and Indescribable.
With mine ears I continuously hear of God and praise Him; His ambrosial Name I enshrine within my mind.
I am absorbed in the perfect Light of the Lord, who is without fear, without from and without enmity.
Nanak, without the Guru, doubt is dispelled not and it is through the True Name, that honour is obtained.
Sorath 1st Guru. Dotukas.
In the region of land, the region of water and the mansion of four directions, is Thine seat O Lord.
O Master, Thine is the only personality to fashion the entire universe and the word of Thy mouth is the mint.
O my Lord, wondrous art Thine plays.
Thou art fully pervading the ocean, earth the sky and Thyself art contained amongst all. Pause.
Where so ever I see, there do I find Thy light. But of what sort is Thy From?
Thou hast but one form and walkest Thou unmanifest, In Thine creation none is like the other.
The egg-born, the placenta born, the earth-born, and the sweat-born beings are all created by Thee.
I have seen one greatness of Thine, that Thou art contained amongst all.
Good many are Thine merits but I realise not even one. Bless me, a fool, with some understanding, O Lord.
Prays Nanak, "Hear, O my Lord and save me, the sinking stone".
Sorath 1st Guru.
I am a wicked sinner, and a great hypocrite and Thou art my Immaculate and Formless Lord.
O my Lord, I have sought thy refuge and tasting the Name Nectar, I am imbued with supreme bliss.
O Creator, Thou art the honour of me, the dishonoured.
In my lap is the honour and glory of the wealth of the Name. and into the True Name I am merged. Pause.
Thou art perfect and I am imperfect and worthless. Thou art profound and I am but trifling.
Day, night and morn my Soul remains imbued with Thee. O God, and my tongue heartily utters thy Name.
Thou art true and I am absorbed in Thee, and having realised the Name's mystery, I have ultimately become true.
They, who day and night, remain imbued with the Name are pure but they who come and go are false.
I see not another like my Lord. Whom else should I eulogise? No one equals Him.
Prays Nanak "I am the slave of the Lord's slave and by Guru's instruction, I have known Him".
Sorath 1st Guru.
Unknowable, Infinite, Unapproachable and Imperceptible is my Lord. He is not subject to death and destiny.
His caste is castelessness. He is unborn, self-illumined and without desire and doubt.
I am a sacrifice unto the Truest of the true.
He has no form, no colour and no features. Through His True Name, He becomes manifest. Pause.
He has no mother, father, son and kinsmen. He is free from lust and has no wife.
Thou, O Lord art without ancestry unsoiled by mammon's love, endless and infinite. Thy light is pervading all.
within every heart is hid the Lord and in all the hearts and bodies is His light.
By Guru's instruction, the adamantine doors are opened and the man assumes trance in the fear-free Lord.
Creating the beings the Lord has stationed death over the head of the beings and all their working the Lord has kept under His away.
He who serves the True Guru, receive the Name wealth and is emancipated by living the Name.
In the pure vessel is contained the True Name. A few indeed are blessed with pure conduct.
Seeing Thy protection, O Lord, man's soul, unites with the supreme soul, says Nana.
Sorath 1st Guru.
As is a fish without water, so is an apostate, who dies of thirst.
So doest thou die O man, without God, if thy breath goes in vain.
O man utter thou the Lord's Name and praise.
Without the Guru, how shalt thou obtain this Nectar? The Guru unites man with the Lord. Pause.
For the Guru-wards, meeting the society of the pious persons is like visiting a place of pilgrimage.
The merit of ablution at the sixty eight places of pilgrimage is obtained by beholding the Guru.
As is the Yogi without continence and as is penance without truth and contentment,
so is the body without the Lord's Name. Death punishes it, as within it, is sin.
The mammon-worshipper obtains not Lord's love. Through the True Guru, the Lord's love is attained.
Says Nanak, he whom meets Guru, the giver of weal and woe, gets absorbed in the Lord's praise.
Sorath 1st Guru.
Thou, O my reverend, Beneficent Lord of perfect understanding and munificence, I am but a beggar of Thine.
what should I ask for? Nothing remain permanent. O Lord, bless me with Thy Beloved Name.
The flower girt Lord is contained in every heart.
In ocean, earth and sky, He is unmanifestly contained and by Guru's instruction, His sight is seen. Pause.
Showering his benediction, the great True Guru has shown me the Lord, in the mortal world, nether world and the firmament.
He, the unborn Lord is and shall also ever be. In thy heart behold thou Him, the Enemy of pride.
This wretched world is subject to birth and death and in another's love it has forgotten the Lord's meditation.
When the True Guru is met, then is the Guru's wisdom obtained. The mammon-worshipper loses his life-game.
Snapping my bonds the True Guru has freed me, so I shall not be cast into the womb, again.
Within me, O Nanak, is the light of he jewel of gnosis and the Formless Lord has taken abode within my mind.
Sorath 1st Guru.
The treasure of the Name-Nectar for the sake of which thou hast come into the world, that Nectar is with the Guru.
Give up garbs, disguises and cleverness. In duality this fruit is obtained not.
O my soul, remain steady and wander not any where.
Searching without, thou shalt suffer much pain. The Nectar is in thy heart at home. Pause.
Forsake sins and pursue virtues By committing sins thou shalt regret.
Thou knowest not the distinction between good and evil and again and again sinkest thou in the mire of sins.
Within thee is great filth of greed and falsehood, so what for washest thou thy (body)?
Ever utter thou the immaculate Name, under Guru's instruction and then alone shall thy innerself be emancipated.
Abandon, greed and slander and forswear falsehood. By Guru's instruction, thou shalt obtain the true fruit.
As it pleasest Thee, so do Thou preserve me, O reverend God Slave Nanak sings the praise of Thy Name.
Sorath 1st Guru. Panchpadas.
Thy own home, thou cannot save from being plundered; why spies thou upon other's houses?
The servant who quaffs the Name Nectar and who engages in the service of the Supreme Guru, he saves his hearth and home.
O man, thou, do, realise, in what evil thinking art thou, engaged?
Forgetting the Name, the man is engrossed in other relishes. The unfortunate one shall regret in the end. Pause.
He is pleased when wealth comes and weeps when it goes. This weal and woe remains attached with him.
The Lord Himself makes man partake of pain and pleasure, But he, the Guru-ward, remains unaffected.
What else can be said to be above the Lord's elixir? he, who quaffs it, is satiated.
Lured by mammon, he who loses this Nectar, that mammon-worshipper is yoked to evil intellect.
The Bright Lord is contained in the body. He is the life of the mind and Master of the body's breath.
If Thou so blessest, O Lord God, then, the man lovingly sings Thy praise, and being attached with Thee in love, gets satiated.
In the society of saints, Lord's elixir is obtained, and meeting the Guru, the ear of death departs.
Nanak, dwell thou on the Lord's Name, through the Guru. By virtue of brow's good fortune the Lord is attained.
Sorath 1st Guru.
Over the head of all the beings is the Lord's writ, there is none over whom this writ is not.
He Himself is without a writ. Creating the creation, the Lord beholds it and Himself, causes His writ to be executed.
O man, meditate thou on the Lord, that. thou may gather peace.
Day and night serve thou the feet of the Guru to know that Thee Lord Himself is the giver and the enjoyer. Pause.
He, who is within, see him without as well, as without Him there is not another's second.
By Guru's grace, see thou all with the same one eye, as in every heart, the Lord's light is contained.
Restrain and keep in its home the mercurial mind. Meeting the Guru, this understanding is attained.
Seeing the unseeable Lord, thou shalt be wonder-struck and then forgetting thy misery, thou shalt gather peace.
Quaffing ambrosia, thou shalt attain supreme bliss and abide in thy own home (self).
Sing thou the praise of the Destroyer of the dread of birth and death and thou shalt not be born again.
The light of the Immaculate Lord, the essence of everything, is pervading all. I am He and there is no difference.
He is the Infinite, Transcendent Lord, the Supreme God and Him, Nanak has obtained as His Guru.
Sorath 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
When I become pleasing to Him, then alone sing I His praise.
Thus do I receive the fruit of singing His praise.
The fruit of hymning His praise is gathered,
when He, the Lord Himself bestows it.
My soul, by Guru's instruction I have gathered the Name treasure.
Therefore, now I remain absorbed in the True Name. Pause.
When Guru's instruction become manifest within me,
then did I forsake my mercurial temperament.
With the light of the Guru's instruction,
the entire darkness is dispelled.
When man's mind is attached with the Guru's feet,
then death's path recedes away from him.
In the Lord's fear, the man attains to the Fearless Lord.
Then he enters the home of celestial bliss.
Says Nanak, some rare thoughtful person knows,
as to what is the most pious action in this world.
The noblest deed is the Lord's praise,
whereby the Lord Himself meets the mortal.
Sorath 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O Lord, all Thine servants, who relish the Name, perform Thy service.
He, who effaces his self-conceit from within himself, becomes pure by Guru's grace.
He, who night and day, ever sings the True Lord's praise, is adorned with the Guru's word.
O my Master, I am Thy child and I seek Thy protection.
My unique Lord, Thou alone art the Truest of the true. O Enemy of ego, Thou art all by Thyself. Pause.
They, who remain wakeful, obtain the Lord and through the Name efface their ego.
In family life, Lord's slave ever remains in dispassion and reflects over the quintessence of gnosis.
Serving the True Guru, he over attain peace and keeps God enshrined in his heart.
This mind wanders in ten directions and duality consumes it.
The way-ward fool remembers not the God's Name and wastes his life in vain.
When he meets with the True Guru, then obtains he the Name and shakes off his pride and worldly attachment.
True are the God's slaves. They practice truth and reflects over the Guru's hymns.
The True Lord unites them with Himself and they keep the True Lord enshrined in their heart.
Through the Name, Nanak is blessed with salvation and understanding. This Name alone is my stock-in-trade.
Sorath 3rd Guru.
He, the True Lord, has blessed His devotees with the treasure of His devotion and the wealth of God's Name.
The inexhaustible Name wealth never runs short and none can appraise its worth.
With the Name's wealth, effulgent becomes the countenances and the True Lord is attained to.
O my soul, it is by Guru's instruction that man attains to his God.
Without the Name, the world goes astray and suffers punishment in the Lord's court. Pause.
Within this body dwell the five thieves, lust, wrath, avarice, attachment and pride.
They plunder Nectar. The apostate knows it not and none heart the complaint.
Blind is the world and blind its dealing without the Guru there is pitch darkness.
Indulging in egotism and egoism, the mortals are ruined and when departing nothing goes with them.
One, who gets resigned to the Name and ever thinks of nothing but the Lord's Name.
Through the True Gurbani, he sings God's praises and becomes happy with the graceful glance of the kind Lord.
the wisdom of the True Guru, ever illuminates his heart; the Lord's writ is over the head of the kings even.
Night and day, the saints ever perform the Lord's devotional service and reap the True profit of His Name.
Nanak, through the Lord's Name, the mortal is emancipated and being imbued with the Name, he attains to the Lord.
Sorath 3rd Guru.
If man becomes the serf of Lord's serfs, then obtains he the Lord and sheds his ego from within.
The Lord of bliss is the pursuit of the saints and, night and day, they sings God's praise.
Imbued with the Name, they ever abide alike and remain absorbed in the Lord.
O my reverend Lord, true is Thine glance of grace.
O Loved Lord, show mercy unto Thine slaves and preserve their honour. Pause.
I live by ever praising the Lord and by the Guru's instruction, my dread is dispelled.
My True Lord is exceedingly8 beauteous and serving the Guru, my soul is attuned to Him.
The man, who utters the True Name and the very true Gurbani, ever remains wakeful.
The Lord is very deep and ever peace-giver. His limit no one can find.
Serving the Perfect Guru, one enshrines in one's mind the carefree Lord.
Eradicating doubt from within, man's mind and body become pure and, within his heart, abides the eternal peace.
God's way is ever a difficult path and only a few find it by meditating on God, through the Guru.
Imbued with God's love and inebriated with His Name, the mortal gives up his ego and evil.
Nanak, the Lord beautifies him, who uniformly remains imbued with His Name.
Sorath 3rd Guru.
My loved Lord, I praise Thee, ever, as long as I have breath in my body.
If I forget Thee even for a moment and trice, I deem it to be equal to fifty years, O Lord.
I was ever a fool and am idiot, O brother but with Guru's instruction my mind is illumined now.
My Reverend Lord, Thou Thyself givest instruction.
My God, I am ever a sacrifice unto Thee and am devoted unto Thy Name. Pause.
O brother, through the Name, I have died and being dead, I am reborn through the Name, and through the Name, I am emancipated.
With the Name, my soul and body are rendered pure and God has come to abide in my mind.
The Guru is the giver of the Name, wherewith my mind is imbued, and I remain absorbed in the Lord.
Blind and deaf are they, who know not the Name What for did they come in the world?
They attain not God's elixir, waste their life in vain and are born again and over again.
The foolish and idiotic infidels are the worms of ordure and in ordure putrefy they.
The Lord Himself creates, watches and puts on the right path. Without Him there in not another, O brother.
None can obliterate that which is pre-ordained, O brother. What the Creator ordains that comes to pass.
Nanak, when the Name abides within man's mind, he beholds not any other.
Sorath 3rd Guru.
The pious persons embrace meditation and become pleasing to the Lord. Night and day they repeat the Name.
Thy Thyself, O Lord protectest and takest care of Thine saints, who are pleasing to Thy mind.
Thou art the Giver of merits and art recognised through the Name. Uttering Thy praise the mortals merge in Thee, O Virtuous Lord.
My soul, ever remember, thou, the praise worthy God.
At the last moment, He shall be thy Friend and shall ever stand by thee. Pause.
The assemblage of the wicked ever practises falsehood and thinks not of the Lord's meditation.
From evil slander, who has ever obtained the fruit? Harnakhsh was torn with the nails.
The Lord's slave Prahlad ever sang God's praise and him the Praiseworthy Lord did deliver.
The egocentrics deem themselves as very virtuous. They have no understanding what-so-ever.
They indulge in the slander of the saintly persons and, wasting their life, they shall depart.
They never reflect over the Lord's Name and, in the end, depart repenting.
The Life of His saints, the Lord makes profitable, and Himself engages them in the Guru's service.
Slave Nanak makes this supplication, "Let me, O Lord, fall at their feet".
Sorath 3rd Guru.
Imbued with the name and inebriated with supreme bliss night and day, they sing God's praise.
He alone is the True disciple, friend, kinsman and brother, who walks in the Guru's will.
He who walks according to his own will, O brother is separated from the Lord and bears blows.
Without the True Guru, he never obtains peace, O brother and repents over and over again.
Happy are the servants of God, O brother.
Their sins and sorrows of myriads of births, the Lord eradicates and unites them in His union. Pause.
All these kinsmen are like bonds for the soul, O brother, Thee world is gone astray in doubt.
Without the Guru, the bonds are broken not. Through the Guru, the door of emancipation is obtained.
He, who performs rituals and knows not Guru's world, dies and is born again and again.
In egotism and egoism the world is entangled but no one belongs to another, O brother.
The holy sing God's praise, attain His presence and secure an abode in their himself here.
Realises his ownself and to him, belongs the Lord Master.
The True Guru is ever merciful, O brother, but without destiny what can one attain?
He looks with his eye of grace on all alike, but as is one's love for Him, so is the fruit he obtains.
Nanak, when the name takes and abode in man's mind, from within him, his self-conceit is eradicated.
Sorath 3rd Guru. Chautuke.
True worship is obtained through the True Guru and then, the True Gurbani abides in man's mind.
He who serves the True Guru gathers eternal peace and his ego is obliterated through the Name.
Without the True Guru, there can be no devotional service and without it the world is gone astray in ignorance.
The self-willed roam about aimlessly. They ever suffer pain and are drowned to death without water.
O brother, ever remain thou under the Lord's protection.
Showering His benediction, the Lord saves the mortal's honour and blesses him with the glory of His Name. Pause.
By pondering over the True Name, through the Perfect Guru, man comes to understand his-own-self.
He forsakes lust, wrath and pride and God, the Life of the world, ever abides in his mind.
Within him mind, he enshrine the Name of the Infinite Lord, who is ever present and is contained in all the places.
In all the ages, it is through the Divine word, that the Lord is recognised and the Name becomes sweet and dear unto the mind.
Fruitful is the birth and advent in this world of him, who by serving the True Guru, realises the Name.
Tasting God's elixir, his soul is sated for aye, and singing the praise of the praise-worthy Lord, he remains content.
His heart lotus blossoms, with Lord's love, he is ever imbued with joy and within him resounds the celestial strain.
Immaculate become his body and mind and immaculate his speech and he merges in the Truest of the true.
None knows the essence of the Lord's Name. By Guru's instruction it is revealed to one's mind.
He, who gets resigned to Guru's will, knows the way and his tongue tastes the Lord's Nectar.
Meditation, austerity and self-restraint are all obtained from the Guru and the Guru enshrines the Name in the mind.
Nanak, the persons, who remember the Name look beauteous and obtain honour in the True court.
Sorath 3rd Guru. Dotukay.
Meeting the True Guru, man turns, away from the world. O brother, when he remains dead in life, then does he obtain understanding.
He alone is the Guru and he alone the disciple, whose light the Lord merges in His supreme light, O brother.
O my soul, embrace thou love with the Lord God.
By meditation, God seems sweet to the mind, O brother. the Guru-wards, obtain place in the Lord's court. Pause.
Without the Guru, Lord's love spring are engrossed in the love of another.
The doing of the deeds by the self-willed is like the thrashing of the chaff. Evidently they obtain but nothing.
Meeting with the Guru, the Name permeates the mind, O brother and true love and affection abide in the mind.
With the infinite love for the Guru, the man, then ever utters God's praise, O brother.
Approved is the advent of him, O brother, who fixes his mind on the Guru's service.
Says Nanak, through the Guru's instruction, O brother the mortal obtains the Lord's Name and is united with the Lord.
Sorath 3rd Guru.
O brother, the three are engrossed in the three qualities. The Supreme Guru imparts this understanding.
Attached to the Lord's Name, the man is delivered. Go and consult the divines, O brother.
O my soul, forsake thou the three modes and fix thy mind with the fourth state.
O brother, the sire Lord abides in thy mind. Sing thou ever the Lord's praise. Pause.
Through the Name all are created, O brother and forgetting the Name, they die away.
The ignorant world is blind, The sleeping ones are plundered, O brother.
Those who remain awake, through the Guru, they are saved, O brother, and cross the terrible world ocean.
In the world, the Lord's Name is the Fruit, O brother and I keep the God's name enshrined in my heart and mind.
Seeking the Guru's shelter and enshrining love for the Lord's Name, I am saved, O brother.
Nanak, the Name is the boat and the Name the raft, embarking on which the Lord's slave ferries across the world ocean, O brother.
Sorath 3rd Guru.
The True Guru is the ocean of peace in the world and there is not another abode of peace.
The world is infested with the painful malady of pride and one comes, goes and shrikes aloud.
O mortal, serve thou the True Guru, and attain peace.
If thou servest the True Guru, then alone shalt thou obtain peace, otherwise, losing thy life in vain, thou shalt depart. Pause.
Led by three dispositions, man does myriads of deeds and relishes not the Lord's elixir.
He says vesper prayer makes water-offering and hymns primal sermons, but without gnosis he suffers sorrow.
Very fortunate is he, who serves the True Guru. He alone meets the Guru, whom the Lord Himself makes him meet.
Quaffing the God's elixir, the Lord's slaves ever remain satiated and from within themselves they eradicate their self-conceit.
This world is blind and all act blindly. Without the Guru, they find not the path.
Nanak, when one meets the true Guru then, one sees with one's eyes and finds the True Lord within one's own home.
Sorath 3rd Guru.
Without serving the Satguru, the man suffers immense pain and wanders through the four ages.
I am a helpless beings, and all the ages through Thou art the Beneficent Lord. Reveal, Thou, Thy Name unto me, O Lord.
O my sire Beloved Lord, show Thou mercy unto me.
Unite me in the union of the munificent True Guru and bless me with the prop of Thy Name, O God. Pause.
Stilling my desire and duality, I have merged in equipoise and have attained the infinite Name.
Tasting the essence of God, the Destroyer of sins, my soul is rendered immaculate.
Dying by Guru's world, thou shalt eternally live afterwards and then, thou shalt not die again.
The Name-Nectar is ever sweet unto the soul. By Guru's instruction some rare one obtains it.
The Bounteous Lord has kept the bounties in His hand and He gives these to him alone, whom He likes. The Name-Nectar is ever sweet unto the soul but, by Guru's instruction, some rare one obtains it.
Nanak, imbued with the Name, the mortals obtain peace and in the Lord's court, they look graceful.
Sorath 3rd Guru.
When man serves the True Guru, then the Divine music rings within him and then is he blessed with wisdom and salvation.
The True Name of God, abide in his mind, and, through the Name, he merges in Lord, the Name Incarnate.
Without the True Guru, the whole world has gone mad.
The blind egocentric person knows not the Name, and in the false delusion he is gone astray. Pause.
The three faced mammon has misled the man into delusion, and He gathers the nooses of self-conceit.
Birth and death dangle over hid head and in the repeated births from the womb he suffers pain.
The whole world acts under the influence of three dispositions and in ego, it losses its honour.
He, who becomes Guru-ward, realises the fourth state of celestial bliss and through the Lord's Name obtains peace.
The three modes are all Thine, O Lord, and Thou Thyself art their maker. Whatever Thou doest, that comes to pass.
Nanak, through the Lord's Name, the mortal is emancipated and through the Name, is rid of his self-conceit.
Sorath 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
My Beloved Lord Himself pervades all and Himself remains detached.
In this world, the Beloved Himself is the Dealer and Himself the True Banker.
Himself the Beloved is the Trade and the Trader and Himself the True credit.
O man, meditate thou on God and praise thou the God's Name.
It is by Guru's grace, that the Immortal, Unapproachable and Unfathomable Beloved is obtained. Pause.
The Beloved Himself hears and sees all and Himself utters from the mouth, through the mouths of all.
My Beloved Himself leads into wilderness and Himself shows the way.
My Beloved is everything by Himself and He Himself is care-free.
All by Himself the Beloved creates and then Himself engages everyone in work.
Himself the Beloved creates the creation and at His destroying, it is destroyed.
My Beloved is Himself the wharf and the ferry man and He Himself ferries across.
The Beloved Himself is the ocean and the boat and Himself, Guru, the boatman, who pilots it.
Embarking on the boat, the Beloved Himself goes across and He, the King, sees the wonderous plays of His own make.
The Beloved Himself is the Merciful Master. O slave Nanak, forgiving the mortal He blends him with Himself.
Sorath 4th Guru.
The Lord Himself is in the egg-born, foetus-born, sweat-born and the earth-born. He Himself is in the continents and Himself in all the worlds.
He Himself is the thread and Himself the numerous beads; exercising His might He has strung the worlds.
The Beloved Himself is the Thread-holder (sustainer). When He withdraws the thread, the beings fall and are reduced to heaps of ashes.
O my soul, without God, there is not any other for me.
In the True Guru is the treasure of the sweet Name, and in his mercy, he trickles the Name-Nectar in my mouth. Pause.
The Beloved Himself is in all the oceans and dry-lands and what the Lord Himself does that alone happens.
The Beloved brings sustenance to all and without Him there is not any other second.
The Beloved Himself plays and makes others play and what He Himself does that alone comes to pass.
All by Himself the Lord is Pure and Pure is His repute.
Himself the Beloved determines the worth of all and what He Himself does that alone happens.
Himself the Beloved is unseen and cannot be seen and He Himself makes man see Him.
The Beloved Himself is deep and unfathomable and as great as He, there is none else.
In every, the Beloved Himself enjoys. He, the Lord is contained within all the men and women.
Nanak, the Beloved is unmanifestly pervading everywhere and it is through the Guru that he becomes manifest.
Sorath 4th Guru.
The Darling Himself is all-in-all; He Himself establishes and disestablishes.
Himself the Beloved beholds and rejoices. The Lord Himself, works miracles and watches them.
In all woods and grass-blades, the Darling Himself is contained and through the Guru, Becomes manifest He.
O man, meditate thou on the Lord Master. With Lord's Name-Nectar thou shalt be satiated.
Very sweet is the relish of the Name-Nectar; by Guru's instruction its taste is revealed. Pause.
My Beloved Himself is the pilgrim place and the raft and Himself the Lord ferries across.
The Beloved Himself casts the net over the whole world and God Himself is the fish.
Himself the Dear Lord is infallible and strays not. Like Him, I see not another second.
Himself the Darling is the Yogi's horn and also the horn's sound and, Himself, He plays the tune.
My Darling is Himself the Yogi's personality and Himself He performs penance.
He Himself is the true Guru and Himself the disciple. The Lord Himself imparts instruction.
The Darling Himself makes man repeat the Name and Himself embraces meditation.
All by Himself the Darling is the Nectar, and all by Himself He quaffs the nectar.
The Lord Himself praises His ownself. Slave Nanak is satiated with the Lord's elixir.
Sorath 4th Guru.
The Lord Himself is the balance, Himself the weighman and Himself He weighs with the weights.
He Himself is the Banker, Himself the pedlar and Himself strikes He the bargain.
The Loved Lord has Himself created the earth and has counterpoised it with a gram.
Pondering over the Lord Master, my soul has obtained peace.
The Dear Lord God's name is the treasure and the Perfect Guru, has made it seem sweet unto me. Pause.
The Loved Lord is Himself the earth, Himself the water and Himself He does and makes others do.
My Beloved-Lord Himself issues commands and keeps the water and land bound together.
My Loved Lord Himself inspires fear, and tying together the goat and the tiger, goads them on.
The Loved Lord is Himself the wood, and Himself the fire. In the wood, He has locked the fire.
The Loved, Lord, all by Himself is pervading both and because of His fear, the fire cannot burn the wood.
Himself the sweet Master kills and revives. All draw the breath given by Him.
All power and eternal court is of the Loved Lord Himself and He Himself engages men in work.
As the Loved Lord Himself makes me walk and as is the pleasure of my God Lord, so do I walk.
The Loved Lord Himself is musician and the musical instrument. The slave Nanak calls the tune which the Lord Makes him tune.
Sorath 4th Guru.
Himself the Dear one creates the world and makes the light of the sum and the moon.
Himself the Dear One is the power of the powerless, and Himself the honour of the unhonoured.
Showing mercy the Dear One Himself protects and Himself is He wise and Omnicient.
O my soul, contemplate thou on the Lord's mighty Name.
Meeting the society of the saints, remember, thou, the Lord Master and thou shalt not come and go again. Pause.
Himself the Dear One acts through goodness and Himself he approves the act.
Himself, the Dear Lord, obeys His will, and Himself He gives the command.
The Loved Lord Himself bestows the boons and Himself He blesses with the insignia of Truth.
The Dear Lord Himself is the treasure of meditation and Himself He gives its gifts
The Dear Lord Himself engages man in His service and Himself He blesses him with honour.
The Dear Lord Himself assumes profound trance and Himself is He the treasure of excellences.
Himself the Beloved Lord is the most exalted and Himself the Supreme Over Lord.
Himself the Beloved-Lord appraise worth and Himself is He the scale and weights.
The Beloved-Lord is unweighable and is weighed by Himself slave Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Him.
Sorath 4th Guru.
The Beloved Himself engages man in His service and He Himself blesses him with the joy of His devotional service.
Himself, the Beloved-Lord makes man sing His praise and Himself is He absorbed in His own Name.
The Lord Himself is the Pen, Himself the scribe and Himself executes He the writing.
My soul, remember, thou, the Lord's name with joy.
The very fortunate ones obtain the profit of the God's name, through the Perfect Guru, and night and day they make merry. Pause.
Himself the Beloved is the milk-maid and Krishan and Himself grazes he the cows in the jungle.
Himself the Beloved is dark and graceful and Himself plays He on the flute.
Assuming the form of the child, my Beloved Himself slew and destroyed Kuwaliapir, the giant elephant.
Himself, the Beloved sets up the arena, and performing the plays Himself, He beholds them.
My Beloved assumed the child form and through him killed Chandur, Kans and Kesi.
My Beloved, by Himself, is the embodiment of power and smashes the power of the fools and idiots.
The Beloved Himself creates all the creatures and keeps in His own hands the power to guide their destinies.
Himself the Beloved puts chains around the neck of the mortals and as the Lord pulls them, so do they go.
He, who takes pride is destroyed O dear, Meditating on the Lord, O Nanak, the saints get absorbed in Him.
Sorath 4th Guru. Dotukas.
Separated from the Lord since many births, the perverse person suffers sorrow, being engaged in the deeds of pride.
Seeing the Saint-Guru, I forth-with attained to Thee, O God, the World-Lord. I have sough Thine protection.
The Lord's love is supremely sweet unto me.
When I met with the congregation of the holy persons, God the Peace-incarnate, came unto my mind. Pause.
Thou, O Lord, day and night abidest hid within my mind but Thy love, the fools understand not.
Meeting the Omnipotent True Guru, the Lord is revealed unto me. His praise do I sing and His praise do I reflect upon.
Through the Guru my mind is illumined and I have attained peace and the evil though is dispelled from within my mind.
Knowing the mystery of the soul and the Lord in Thine saints congregation, O God, I have obtained peace.
They, on whom is Thine grace, O God, they meet the Mighty Master, by obtaining the mighty Guru.
O Gardener of the world-wood, night and day, Nanak remains awake, and he has obtained the immeasurable celestial peace.
Sorath 4th Guru.
With the love of God, the core of my heart is pierced and with-out God I cannot live.
As the fish perishes without water, so did I die without the Lord's Name.
O my Master, by Thine grace, bless Thou me with the water, Thy Name.
I crave for the name, within my mind, day and night, and through the Name, I gather peace. Pause.
As the pied-cuckoo wails without water and without water his thirst is quenched not.
Similarly it is through the Guru, that the Water of Divine bliss is obtained and one is reverdured with the blessed of the Lord.
The apostates are ever hungry and wander in ten directions, Without the Name they suffer sorrow.
They are born to die and again enter into the circle of transmigration. In the Lord's court, they are awarded punishment.
If the Lord Shows mercy, then the man sings God's praise and within him mind, attains the God's elixir.
The Lord has become, merciful unto meek Nanak, and his desire, the Lord has quenched with his Name.
Sorath 4th Guru. Panchpada.
If man eats up the uneatable then becomes he the perfect person, and through perfection he attains wisdom.
When the arrows of the Lord's affection strike the body, then alone is the doubt dispelled.
O my Lord of the world, bless Thine slave with the glory of Thy Name.
O Lord, by Guru's instruction, awaken Thy Name in me, that I may ever abide under Thy protection. Pause.
This entire world is subject to coming and going, O my insensate, foolish mind, therefore, remember, thou the Lord.
O sire Lord, take pity and unite me with the Guru, that I may merge in the God's Name.
He, whose commodity, the Name, is, that Lord alone knows and He, alone obtains it whom He gives.
Supremely beauteous, unapproachable and unfathomable is this commodity, the name. Through the perfect Guru, the unknowable Lord is known.
He who tastes it, alone knows, its relish; it is like a dumbman's sweet.
By concealing, the emerald remains not concealed, even though one may try to conceal.
Everything is Thine, Thou art the reader of hearts and Thou art the Beauteous Lord of all.
He alone receives the gift whom Thou blesseth with it, O Lord. None else can receive it, O Slave Nanak.
Sorath 5th Guru. Titukas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
Whom should I beg and whom worship, when all are created by the Lord?
Who-so-ever appear to be the greatest of the great, they all will ultimately mix with the dust.
The Fearless, the Formless Lord, the Destroyer of dread, gives all comforts and nine treasure.
O sire Lord, with Thin gifts alone, I am satiated.
Why should I praise the helpless man and why should I feel subservient to him? Pause.
All the things belong to him, who meditates on God. The Lord appeases his hunger.
Thee Bestower of peace confers such wealth, as is never exhausted.
The True Guru has united me in the Lord's union and I am now happy being absorbed in supreme bliss.
O my soul, repeat Thou the Name, contemplate over the Name, and night and day dilate, thou, upon the Name.
Hear thou the instruction of the saints and the pious persons and all thy fear of death shall depart.
They, to whom my Master becomes merciful, are dedicated to the Guru's hymns.
Who can appraise Thine worth, O Lord? Thou are compassionate to all the beings.
All that, which Thou doest, prevails, What can I, a poor child do, O Lord?
Preserve thou Thy serf Nanak and be merciful to him, as father is to his son.
Sorath 5th Guru. Chautukas.
Praise Thou the great Lord of the world, O brother, and enshrine Him in thy mind, body and soul.
Dwell thou the True Lord within thy heart, O brother; This is the sublime way of life.
The bodies, in which the Name springs not, O brother, those bodies are reduced to ashes.
O brother, I am a sacrifice unto the society of saints, that leans on the support of One Lord alone.
Meditate thou on that True Lord alone, who has the power to do all things, O brother.
The Perfect Guru has make it known me, that without Him there is not any other, O brother. Pause.
Without the Name, O brother, the mortals putrefy and die and their number cannot be reckoned.
Without Truth, purification is not attained, O brother True and unfathomable is my Master.
False is the pride of the worldly valuables. Attached to them, man's coming and going ends not, O brother.
Blessing with even a particle of the Name, the Exalted Guru, saves myriads of me, O brother.
Simritis and Shashtras I have searched, O brother but without the True Guru, the doubt departs not.
O brother, the mortal grows weary of doing good many deeds and again and again, he falls into the mammon's net.
I have searched the four directions, O brother but without the True Guru there is no place.
Through the greatest good fortune, I have obtained the Guru, O brother and I, now, meditate on the Lord God's Name.
Ever pure is the Truth O brother! and pure are they who are True.
He, on whom is the Lord's grace, by him alone is the Lord attained, O brother.
Amongst millions of men, rarely a serf of the Lord is found, O brother.
O brother, Nanak is imbued with the True Name, hearing which the mind and body are rendered pure.
Sorath 5th Guru. Dotukas.
As long as this man believes in friendship and enmity, so long it is difficult for him to meet God.
So long as man discriminates between, him-self and another, till then there remains and difference between him and the Lord.
O the Lord of wealth, grant me such an understanding,
that I serve only the saints, seek their feet's protection and forget not the Lord, even for a moment and trice. Pause.
O my foolish, unthoughtful and fickle mind, such a thing did not occur to thee,
that, forsaking the Lord of life, thou art engrossed in the other and art attached with thine enemies.
If the mortal harbour not egoism then woe affects him not, From the society of saint, I have received this understanding.
Deem the prating of the mammon-worshipper as vain as the waft of wind.
With millions of sins this mind is enveloped. What can, then man say?
O Lord, Nanak, Thine meek slave, has entered Thy asylum; Pray write Thou off all his accounts.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Sons, wife, people and women of thy household are the kinsmen of wealth.
At the last moment, none of them shall stand by thee as their love if all false.
O man, why pamperest thou thy body?
It shall fly away like a cloud of smoke. Contemplate thou over the One Beloved Lord. Pause.
Fixing three as the number for its consumption, the body was created, it is thrown into water, to the dogs, or burnt to ashes.
Deeming himself immortals, the man, sits in him home, and forgets the cause of causes.
In various ways, the Lord has fashioned the beads and has strung them on a frail thread.
The thread shall break, O wretched man, and then thou shalt repent afterwards.
Day and night meditate thou on Him, who created thee and having created has bedecked thee.
The Lord has extended His mercy to slave Nanak and he has held fast to the True Guru's protection.
Sorath 5th Guru.
My Perfect Guru, I have met through the greatest good fortune and my mind is illumined.
None else can equal me, as I have the support of my Lord.
Unto my True Guru, I am a sacrifice.
Before me, now, there is peace, Hereafter I shall have celestial bliss and in my home there is eternal joy. Pause.
He, the Creator and Inner-knower, is my Master.
Having the prop of the unique Lord's Name and repairing to the Guru's feet, I have become fear-free.
Fruitful is the vision and immortal the form of my Master, who is and shall also be.
Hugging to His bosom the Lord saves His slaves and their love for Him is sweet unto the Lord.
Great is the glory and wondrous the magnificence of the Lord and through Him the affairs are resolved.
Nanak has met with the Perfect Guru and all him sorrows are dispelled.
Sorath 5th Guru.
To a happy man all seem happy and to the sick man, all are sick.
The Lord acts and causes to act. In His hand is the union of the soul with Him.
O my mind, he who has dispelled his doubt,
and realised the Lord to be amongst all, in his thought none is gone astray. Pause.
He, whose soul is comforted in the society of saints, he deems all to be happy.
He, whose heart is engrossed in the malady of pride, wails in birth and death.
Everything appears manifest to him, to whose eyes the collyrium of wisdom is applied.
In the darkness of spiritual ignorance, the man sees nothing and again wanders in transmigration.
O my Lord, hear Thou my supplication, Nanak prays of this happiness.
Where the saints sing Thine praise to that place, let my mind be attached.
Sorath 5th Guru.
My body belongs to the saints, my wealth to the saints and to the saints I have entrusted my soul.
My saints grace, I meditate on God's name and all comforts then accrue.
Without the saints, there is no other giver,
and who-so-ever seeks the saints shelter, he, is ferried across the world ocean. Pause.
Myriads of sins are erased by serving the saints and singing God's praise with love.
By the saints' association, which is obtained by good fortune, man gathers peace here, and his countenance becomes bright hereafter.
I have but one tongue and the Lord's slave in full of many merits. How far can I recount His slave's praise.
The Inaccessible, Inapprehensible and ever Imperishable Lord is obtained by seeking the saints protection.
I am meritless, low, friendless and sinful, I long for the saints shelter.
I am drowning in the blind well of household attachments. O Lord stand by Nanak and save him.
Sorath 5th Guru.
He, within whose mind abidest Thou, O Creator, His desire Thou fulfillest.
Thy slave, forgets Thee not. The dust of Thine feet is pleasing to his mind. O Lord.
Thine discourse is ineffable and I can describe it not.
O Lord, the Treasure of excellences and Giver of peace, highest of the high is Thy greatness. Pause.
Those and only those deeds the mortal does, which thou hast destined for him.
Thy serf, Thou blesses with Thine service and seeing Thy sight, he is satiated.
Amongst all, Thou art contained and he alone, realises this whom Thou causest to understand.
By Guru's grace his spiritual ignorance is dispelled and he is renowned in all the places.
He alone is spiritually enlightened, he alone is a contemplator, and he alone is the man of good nature.
Says Nanak, he to whom the Lord is compassionate, he forgets Him not in him mind.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The entire creation is engrossed in worldly love and the man is sometimes high, some times low.
By no artifice he is purified, and no one reaches the desired goal.
O my soul, emancipation is attained to by seeking the saints refuge.
Without the Perfect Guru, births and deaths end not, rather the mortal comes over and over again. Pause.
That what is called the misgiving of illusion, in that is the whole world entangled.
But the perfect saint of the omnipotent Lord remains detached from all the things.
Slander not the world for any thing for it is created by the Master.
He, on whom is the grace of my Lord, meditates on the name, in the saints society.
The True Guru is the embodiment of the Primal God, the Transcendent Lord, and he emancipates all.
Says Nanak, without the Guru, one swims not across. This is the perfect essence of all the deliberations.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Searching, searching and searching, I have concluded that the Lord's Name alone is he sublime reality.
Contemplating on it, even for an instant, the sins are erased, and turning Guru-word, the mortal is ferried across.
O divine person, quaff thou the Lord's elixir.
Hearing, hearing the ambrosial words of the saints the soul obtains supreme satisfaction. Pause.
Salvation, dainties, and the true way of the life are attained from Lord, the Giver of all bliss.
The Omnipresent Creator Lord blesses His slave with the gift of His meditation.
Hear with Thy ears, and sing with thy tongue the Lord's praise and in thy mind, think thou of Him.
The Lord is Omnipotent to do all the deeds; without Him there is naught else.
By good fortunate, I have obtained the jewel of human life Now, have mercy on me, O Merciful Master.
In the saints society, Nanak sings Lord's praise and ever meditates on Him.
Sorath 5th Guru.
After taking bath, remember thou thy Lord, thus soul and body shall be disease free.
In the Lord's refuge millions of obstacles are removed and good fortune dawns.
The Lord's discourse and the words are the best utterances.
Ever sing hear and recite them, O brother and the Perfect Guru shall save thee. Pause.
Immeasurable is the greatness of the True Lord He, the Merciful Master is the Lover of his saints.
He has been preserving the honour of His saints and to cherish them is he innate nature, since the beginning of Time.
God's Nectar-Name ever eat thou as food and put it into thy mouth at al times.
Every day hymn thou the praise of the Lord of the world, and the pains of old age and death shall all flee away.
My Master has heard my supplication, and all mine affairs have been adjusted.
Thy glory of Guru Nanak, has become manifest all the ages through.
Sorath 5th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
The One Lord is the Father of all and we are the children of the One Lord. Thou, O Lord, art our Guru.
Hear, Thou O God, my Friend, my soul would be a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto Thee, If Thou revealeth me thy vision.
Hearken Thou O Friend, I am a sacrifice unto the dust of Thine feet.
This soul of mine is Thine, O Brother. Pause.
I shampoo thine Feet, and thoroughly rub and wash them. I give this heart of mine to Thee, O my Master.
Hearken, O Lord, my Friend, I have sought Thine protection. Instruct me that I my meet with Thee.
O man, take not pride, seek His refuge, and accept, as good, all that He does.
Hear thou, O my Friend, surrender thy soul, body and the whole self to Him; thus shalt thou be blessed with the vision of the sire Lord.
By The saints grace, the Lord has extended His mercy to me and the God's name is sweet to me.
The Guru has showered benediction on slave Nanak, and he has seen the caste-less and mammon-free Lord, every where.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Lord is the Master of millions of universes and He is the Donor of all the creatures.
He ever cherishes, and takes care of all but the fool appreciates not even one goodness of His.
I know not how to meditate on God.
I only repeat "God, God, Guru, Guru".
O Sir God, I go by the Name of Lord's slave. Pause.
The Merciful Master is compassionate to the meek is like Ocean of peace and fills all the hearts.
He sees, hears, and is ever with me, but I, a fool, deem Him to be distant.
The Lord is limitless but I can only describe Him within limits. What do I know, as to what is He like.
I, supplicate to my True Guru, to instruct me, the stupid.
What to say of a silly fellow like me, millions of sinners have been saved by Guru's instruction.
They, who have heard, and seen Guru Nanak, fall not, again, into the womb.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The things which ever caused me great anxiety, they all have now vanished.
I now sleep in peace, abide in the supreme spiritual bliss and my inverted heart lotus has bloomed.
Lo, a wondrous thing has happened.
The Lord, who's knowledge is spoken of as unfathomable, Hi, the Guru has enshrined within my mind. Pause.
The demons, who greatly tortured me, have themselves become panic-stricken.
Say they, "Pray, save us from thy Lord. We have sought thy protection".
Where the Lord of the world is treasure, opens, who-so-ever is destined to receive there from, he receives.
The one gem, the Guru has given me, and my mind and body have become calm.
The Guru has blessed me with one drop of Nectar, whereby having become immovable and immortal, I shall die not.
The Lord entrusted Guru Nanak with the treasure of His devotional service, and then never took an account from him.
Sorath 5th Guru.
They, within whose mind the priceless virtues abide not, those men remain thirsty of worldly desires.
They within whose mind the priceless virtues abide not; those men remain thirsty of wordly desires.
Remembering God, the man becomes disease-free, and happy.
He who forgets my dear Lord, deem him afflicted with lacs of ailments. Pause.
The persons, who hold fast to thy protection, O Lord Master, they are happy in Thine sanctuary.
The men, who forget Lord, the Creator, they are counted amongst the miserable ones.
He, who having faith in the Guru, bears love to the Lord, he enjoys the relish of supreme bliss.
He who having forgotten the Lord forsakes the Guru, he falls in the terrible hell.
As the Lord engages any man, so is he engaged and then is he cast accordingly.
Nanak has grasped the refuge of the saints, and his heart is absorbed in the Lord's feet.
Sorath 5th Guru.
As the King is entangled in the state's affairs, an egotist is engaged in his ego,
and the greedy man in lured into avarice, so is the enlightened absorbed in the Lord's love.
This is what becomes the Lord's slave.
Seeing the Lord near, he serves the True Guru, and with the Lord's praise, is He sated. Pause.
An addict is attached to the intoxicants and to a landlord, the land is dear.
As with the milk, the baby is attached, so is the saint, the lover of the Lord.
In learning the man of learning is absorbed and the eyes are rejoiced to see.
As the tongue relishes the taste, so does the man of God sing the Lord's praise.
As is the hunger, so is He the fulfiller. he is the master of all the hearts.
Nanak, thirsts for the glimpse of the Lord, and him has met the master, the Inner-Knower.
Sorath 5th Guru.
We are soiled, Thou O Creator art Immaculate, we are virtueless and thou art our Donor.
We are ignorant and thou art intelligent and wise, Thou art the knower of all the arts.
O Lord of wealth, such are we and such art Thou.
We are sinners and Thou the Destroyer of sins, Beauteous is Thine abode, O Lord. Pause.
Thou createst all and having created blessest them. Thou givest soul, body and life.
We are meritless, with no merit What-so-ever; Bless us with the gift of merits, O the Merciful Master.
Thou doest good to us, but we deem it not good. Ever and ever, Thou art compassionate.
Thou, O creator Lord, art the Giver of peace, save Thou, Thine children.
Thou, O Eternal Monarch, art our treasure. All the mortals and other beings beg of Thee.
Says Nanak, "Such indeed is our state, pray, O Lord, keeps us on the Path of the Saints".
Sorath 5th Guru.
Blessing with Thine meditation in the mother's womb, Thou O saviour, didst save the mortal there.
Thou, O saviour now ferry me across the ocean of fire, with countless waves.
O Lord, Thou art the Master over my head.
Here and hereafter, Thou alone art my support. Pause.
The created things, the deems like the mountain of Gold and the Creator like a grass blade.
Thou art the munificent Master and all of us are beggars at Thine door and Thou betowest gifts in Thy will.
In a moment Thou art one thing and in a moment quite another. Wondrous are Thine ways.
Beauteous, mysterious, profound, unfathomable, lofty, inaccessible and infinite are Thou, O Lord.
When Thou associated me with the saints society, I hearkened then, to Thy Gurbani.
Nanak is happy on seeing the glory of the unattached Perfect Lord.
Sorath 5th Guru.
I am the dust of the beloved saints feet, and I seek their protection.
The saints are my powerful prop, and the saints my ornaments.
I am hand and glove with the saints.
I have obtained what was preordained for me.
O saints, my brethren, this soul is yours. Pause.
With the saints are my dealings, and with the saints is my business.
From the saints I have earned the profit of Name and my mind's treasure is filled wit God's devotional service.
The saints gave me the capital of the Lord's Name, and I was then rid of my mind's anxiety.
What can the Righteous judge do now, when all his account books are torn up?
By the saints grace, I have become supremely blissful, and have obtained peace.
Says Nanak my soul is reconciled with God and it is imbued with The Lord's wondrous love.
Sorath 5th Guru.
As many things as thou beholdest, O man, that many thou shalt have to leave.
Have thou dealings with the Lord's Name that thou mayest attain the immortal status.
My Beloved, Thou alone art my Giver of peace.
The Perfect Guru has instructed me, and with Thee, O Lord, I am attuned. Pause.
Lust, wrath, avarice, worldly attachment, and pride, in them peace is not obtained.
Be thou the dust of every one's feet, O my soul and then shalt thou obtain joy, bliss and peace.
My mind, serve thou Him, who knows thy hearts condition and who lets not the service go in vain.
Worship thou the Guru's God, and dedicate this soul of thine to him. He is the very image of the Immortal one.
He is the Master of universe, compassionate, the Lord of wealth, the Transcendent one and the Formless God.
The name is my merchandise, the name the goods and the Name alone is the mainstay of Nanak's life.
Sorath 5th Guru.
In the dead body the Guru infuses breath and the separated ones, unites he.
When the Guru hymns, the praise of the Lord's Name with his mouth, even the beasts, goblins and fools become attentive listeners.
Behold thou the greatness of the perfect Guru.
His worth cannot be described. Pause.
He has demolished the abode of distress and sorrow and has blessed the mortal with happiness, beatitude and comforts.
His heart desired fruits he effortlessly obtains and his affairs are adjusted.
He obtains peace here, an honoured (bright) face hereafter and cease his comings and goings.
They, who are pleasing to their True Guru's mind become free of fear and the Name abides in their heart.
Who-so-ever, standing and sitting sings hymn of God's praise, grief, distress and doubt flee from him.
Says Nanak, he, whose mind is attached to the Guru's feet, his affairs are resolved.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Forsaking the jewel, the man is attached to the shell from which nothing can be obtained.
My soul, ever meditate thou on the Perfect, Transcendent Lord Master.
O mortal, contemplate thou on the name of the Lord Master.
O ignorant man, the frail body of thine shall perish. Pause.
Optical illusions and dream-objects, to them, no greatness can be attached.
Without the Lord's meditation nothing avails the mortal, nor anything goes with him.
Taking pride in his ego, the mortal's life passes and he does nothing for the good of his soul.
Wandering and ever wandering about he is contented not and remembers not the Lord's Name.
Intoxicated with the relish of misdeeds and pleasure of evil passions and numberless sins, he goes round in existences.
Nanak prays to his Lord to rid him of his demerits.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Sing thou the praise of thy Perfect and Imperishable Lord so that the poison of lust and wrath be burnt.
Through the society of saints, the very difficult ocean of fire is ferried across.
The Perfect Guru has dispelled the darkness of doubt.
With love and devotion, remember thou the Lord, who is ever near thee. Pause.
Quaffing the Name-Nectar from the Lord Master's treasure, the soul and body remain satiated.
Everywhere the supreme Lord is fully pervading and hence where from pervading and hence wherefrom needs He to come and whereto has He to go.
He, within whose mind, the Lord abides, is a man of meditation, penance, self-restraint and gnosis, and he is the knower of reality.
Fruitful becomes the service of him, who, through the Guru, obtains the name jewel.
All his strifes, sufferings and pains are dispelled and the noose of his death's is cut.
Says Nanak, the Lord extends His mercy to him and blossoms his soul and body.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Beneficent Supreme Being the Master Lord God of the mortals, is the Doer and Prompter of deeds.
He, the Merciful Master, who has created all the beings, is the knower of hearts.
The Guru himself is my succour.
I am, now, in celestial peace, bliss, and joyful pleasure and wondrous in my glory. Pause.
Seeking the Guru's protection my fears are dispelled and I am accepted in the True Court.
Hymning His praise, and repeating the Lord's Name, I have reached my destination.
Everyone acclaims and praises me, and dear to me is the saints congregation.
I am ever a sacrifice unto my Lord, who has fully preserved my honour.
All those who behold the Guru's sight are saved by dilating upon the Divine discourse and hearing the Name.
Nanak's Lord becomes merciful to him, and he reaches his home with joy.
Sorath 5th Guru.
In the Lord's refuge all the fears depart, pains disappear, and peace, is obtained.
When the Transcendent Lord Master becomes compassionate, the mortal dwells on the Perfect True Guru.
Lord, O Sire, Thou art my Munificent Master.
O Lord, compassionate to the poor, take pity on me, that imbued with love, I may sing Thy praise. Pause.
The True Guru has implanted the wealth of Name within me, and all my anxieties have been dispelled.
Showering his benediction, the True Guru, has make me his own and the imperishable Lord is enshrined within my mind.
Him, no affliction befalls, whom his True Guru preserve.
The Lord's lotus feet abide in his mind and he enjoys the sweetness of God's elixir.
Like a slave, serve thou Thy master, who has fulfilled thy heart's desire.
Servant Nanak is a sacrifice unto Him, the Perfect Lord, who has saved his honour.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Immersed in the darkness of the love of wealth, the man knows not the Giver.
He, knows not Him, who fashioned and created his soul and body, and deems the power he has, to be his own.
O ignorant man, the Lord Master, is keeping an eye on thine acts.
Whatever thou doest, that, yea, all that He knows; nothing remains concealed from Him. Pause.
Thou art intoxicated with the pleasure of the palate, greed and pride, From then are born millions of sins.
Weighed with the chains of egotism, thou hast wandered in suffering through many existences.
Closing the doors and behind so many screens the man enjoys with another's woman.
When God's agents call for Thy account, who shall screen thee, then?
O the Omnipresent Lord, Merciful to the meek and Destroyer of sorrow, without Thee, I have no other refuge.
Extricate me from the world ocean, O Lord Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary.
Sorath, 5th Guru.
The Supreme Lord has come to my succour and His discourse and praise have given me peace and me peace and comforts.
Make merry. thou, O mortal, by ever repeating the hymns of the Perfect Guru.
Remember thou the True Lord, O brother.
In the saints society, man attains lasting peace and forgets not the Lord ever. Pause.
O Supreme Lord, Nectar is Thy Name and he alone lives, who meditates on it.
He who is blessed with God's grace, that man becomes immaculate.
My mind is attached with Guru's feet, so my obstacles are removed and all the woes are past.
Singing the praise of the Immovable and Imperishable Lord, man, night and day, remains awake in God's Love.
Hearing the peace-bestowing discourse of God, man attains the fruits, his heart desires.
In the beginning, middle and end, He, the Lord, is ever the Friend of Nanak.
Sorath 5th Guru. Panchpada.
May my worldly love and sense of mine and thine be removed and my self conceit be dispelled.
O saints, show me such a way,
by which my self-conceit and ego be banished. Pause.
All the mortals, I deem like the Supreme Lord and I become the dust of the feet of them all.
I see the sire Lord ever with me and the wall of my doubt is shattered.
The Name Nectar and the pure ambrosial water are obtained through the Guru.
Says Nanak, he, in whose destiny it is so writ, his disease is dispelled by meeting with the Guru.
Sorath, 5th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
As fire is contained in all timber and butter in all milk,
so, in high and low, His light is contained and the Lord of wealth is pervading the hearts of all the human beings.
O saints, He is pervading all the hearts.
The Perfect Lord is fully contained amongst all, In water and dry land the pervading Lord is pervading. Pause.
Nanak sings the praise of the Treasure of virtues and the True Guru has dispelled his doubt.
The Omnipresent Lord is contained amongst all, though ever distinct from them.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Meditate thou on Him by whose meditation, bliss ensues and the fear and pain of birth and death are removed.
And thou shalt obtain the four cardinal boons and nine treasure and shalt not feel thirst and hunger again.
And repeating whose Name thou shalt ever be at peace.
O my soul, with every breath of thine, meditate thou on the Lord's Name with the mind, body and mouth. Pause.
Thou shalt gather peace, thy mind shall be comforted and the fire of desire shall smoulder not in thee.
The Guru has revealed the Lord's presence to Nanak in the three worlds of water, land and the wood.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Lust, wrath, avarice, falsehood and calumny, from these, Thou Thyself rescue me, O Lord.
From within this mind, dispel these and call me close to Thee.
Thy way, Thou Thyself maketh me understand.
Meeting the God's slaves, I sing the Lord's praise. Pause.
O Lord, implant in my mind such an understanding that I may never forsake Thee from my heart.
By the greatest good fortune, slave Nanak has met with the Perfect Guru and he, now, goes not any where else.
Sorath 5th Guru.
By whose meditation all things are attained and man's service goes not in vain.
Forsaking that Lord, who is contained in everything, why attachest thou to another?
O saints, meditate on Lord God, the world-cherisher.
Meeting with the saints society, remember, thou, the Lord's Name, so that your service may be fruitful. Pause.
His slave, he ever preserve and cherisher and, with love, hugs him to his bosom.
Says Nanak, how can the world obtain eternal life by forgetting Thee, O Lord?
Sorath 5th Guru.
Imperishable and Benefactor of The beings is the Lord, remember whom all the filth is removed.
The Lord, the Treasure of virtues, is for saints use. but rare is the person who obtains Him.
O my soul, contemplate thou on that Lord, the Great Cherisher of the World,
Seeking whose shelter man obtains peace and suffers not agony, again. Pause.
By Good fortune the saints society is obtained, by meeting which, the evil-thought is dispelled.
Slave Nanak craves for the dust of their feet, who have stringed the Lord's Name into their heart.
Sorarh 5th Guru.
The Guru rids man of the afflictions of births over births and lends support to the dried up soul.
Having His vision, the mortal is blest and dwell he, on the God's Name.
Guru, the image of the World-Lord, is my physician.
The cure all of the Lord Master's Name, He puts into my mouth and snaps the death's noose. Pause.
The Omnipotent Perfect Lord, Builder of our destinies is Himself the Doer of deeds.
His slave, the Lord Himself saves and hence Nanak seeks the support of the Name alone.
Sorath 5th Guru.
My mind's condition, Thou alone knowest and with Thee lies the ultimate judgement.
Pardon me, Thou, O my Lord Master, though I have committed lakhs of mistakes and sins.
My beloved Lord, ever abide near me, O my Master.
O God, bless me, Thy attendant, with the refuge of Thine feet. Pause.
Beyond reckoning, infinite, lofty, virtuous and deep is my Lord.
Snapping the noose, the Lord has make Nanak His own slave, then what obligation owes he to any one.
Sorath 5th Guru.
When the Great Lord of the World become merciful, I obtained all the desires of my heart.
Touching the Lord's feet and singing the Master's praise I have become eternal.
It is a good and wholly auspicious time.
When by uttering the Lord's Name, I attain peace, composure and happiness and unstruck melody rings within me. Pause.
On meeting the Lord, my Beloved, my home and mansion have become comfortable.
Serf Nanak has attained the treasure of God's Name and all his heart's desires are fulfilled.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Guru's feet abide in my mind and the Lord has blessed me with sublime qualities.
The Immaculate supreme Lord has become king and I have found the name treasure within my mind.
The Guru is my preserver and friend.
He ever blesses me with two-fold and four-fold greatness and celebrity. Pause.
All the men and other creatures, who see His sight, are saved by the Lord.
Wondrous is the greatness of the Perfect Guru and Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto him.
Sorath 5th Guru.
I amass the immaculate wealth of the Name. The Name commodity is infinite and peerless.
O my disciples and kinsmen, partake of it thou and live long, revel, play make merry and enjoys peace.
I have the support of the God's lotus feet.
By saints grace, I have attained the ship of Truth, embarking on which I ferry across the world's ocean of poison. Pause.
The pervading, eternal Lord has become merciful and He Himself has taken care of me.
Seeing the Lord's vision, Nanak has blossomed O Nanak, he is beyond all reckoning.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Perfect Guru has make manifest his might and in all the hearts has welled up compassion for me.
Blending me with Himself, the Lord has granted me greatness and I have obtained emancipation and all pleasure.
The Perfect True Guru is ever with me.
Meditating on my Transcendent Lord, I am ever jubilant. Pause.
Within and without, in peace and inter-space, where-so-ever I see, there He, the Lord, it.
Through the greatest good fortune, Nanak, has obtained the Guru. No one else is as great as He.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Beholding the Lord's feet, I am blessed with comfort, bliss, salvation and celestial melody.
Repairing to the True Guru's protection, I am saved.
The Guru is such, whose service goes not in vain. Pause.
The Saviour has saved the child, and the True Guru has rid him of the fever.
When one's Lord becomes merciful, there is joy at home and again there is joy abroad too.
Nanak, no obstacle befalls me since my Master has become merciful unto me.
Sorath 5th Guru.
In the society of saints, fervour welled up in my mind and I hymned the praise of the name jewel.
Remembering the Infinite Lord, my anxiety is dispelled and I have crossed the world ocean, O brother.
Within my mind, I enshrine the Lord's feet.
I have obtained bliss, the melody of equipoise rings within me and multitudes of maladies are dispelled. Pause.
What virtues of Thine can I narrate and describe? Thy worth cannot be told.
O Nanak, the Lord's slaves become immortal, and my Master becomes their support.
Sorath 5th Guru.
My Lord has extended His mercy, so my sufferings are past and my afflictions are all obliterated.
All the eight watches through, I contemplate over my Lord and fruitful has become my toil.
O reverend Master, Thou art my bliss, wealth and capital.
I pray to Lord! "Save me, O Loved One".
What-so-ever I ask, that yea all that I receive, for I have faith in my Master.
Says Nanak, I have met with my Perfect Guru, and all my fears are dispelled.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Remembering, and ever remembering my Great True Guru, I am rid of all the pain.
By Guru's holy word the fever and other afflictions are past and I have obtained my heart desired fruits.
My Perfect Guru is the Giver of peace.
He is the Doer of deeds, the Omnipotent Master and the Perfect Creator Lord. Pause.
Make Thou merry, revel, and sing Lord's praise and excellences for, Guru Nanak has become compassionate to thee.
The ovations of triumph resound through the world and the Transcendent Lord has become my Preserver.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Lord did not go into my account in keeping with His own forgiving nature.
Lending His hand and deeming me His own, the Lord has saved me and now I ever, yea ever revel in His love.
My True Master is ever merciful.
My Perfect True Guru has put a bar in the way of pains and I am, now, in all bliss. Pause.
He who fashioned the body, infused life therein, and gave clothing and sustenance,
has Him-self saved the honour of His slave. Unto Him, the Lord, Nanak is ever a sacrifice.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Lord God Himself has rid the whole world of its sins and has saved it.
The Transcendent Lord Master has extended His mercy and upheld His innate nature.
I have attained the refuge of Lord, the King.
With peace, equipoise and joy, I sing the Lord's praise and my mind, body and human frame are all the peace. Pause.
The saviour of the sinners is my True Guru and in him, I have placed my reliance.
Listening to Nanak's supplications, the True Lord has pardoned all his sins.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Supreme Lord, the Primal Being, has forgiven and all the ailments are removed.
They, who enter the sanctuary of the Perfect Guru, are saved and all their affairs are resolved.
God's slave remembers the name, which is the support.
Extending his mercy, the Perfect Guru, has cured the fever. Pause.
My dear ones ever make merry for my Guru has saved Hargobind.
Great is the greatness of the Creator, True is His word and true His discourse, O Nanak.
Sorath 5th Guru.
My Master has become merciful unto me, in His True court.
The True Guru has dispelled the fever and the whole world is at peace, O brother.
His creatures, the Lord Himself protects and the Death's courier is rendered ineffective.
Clasp thou, God's feet, to thy mind and heart.
Ever, yea ever contemplate thou on the Lord, O brother. He is the obliterator of woes and sins. Pause.
He, who has created all, His refuge, saves the mortals, O brother.
He is Omnipotent to do all deeds, O brother, and True is the glory of the True Lord.
Says Nanak, meditate thou on the Lord, O brother, and thy soul and body shall become pacified.
Sorath 5th Guru.
O saints, I ponder over the Lord's God's Name.
I forget not the Lord, the Ocean of happiness, and obtain my heart desired fruits. Pause.
Extending his mercy, the Perfect True Guru has cured the fever.
The Transcendent Lord Master has become merciful and the entire family, is rid off the malady.
I have the prop of God's Name which is the treasure of all the joy, Nectar and beauty.
Nanak, the Supreme Lord has preserved my honour, and the whole world is saved.
Sorath 5th Guru.
My True Guru is not my saviour.
Taking pity and lending His hand, the Lord has saved Hargobind and he is now safe and sound. Pause.
The fever is gone, the Lord has Himself banished it and saved the honour of His slave.
From the society of saints, I have obtained all the boons and unto the True Guru, I am a sacrifice.
The Lord has saved me both in this world and the next one and my merits and demerits, He has not taken into account.
Never failing, O Guru Nanak, is Thy word. Thy auspicious hand, thou hast placed on my forehead.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The mortals and other creatures are all created by Him and He alone is the saints succour.
He Himself saves the honour of His devotee and perfect becomes his greatness.
The Perfect Supreme Lord in with me.
The Perfect Guru has all too perfectly preserved my honour and everybody is compassionate to me. Pause.
Night and day Nanak utters the name of God, who is the Giver of soul and very life.
His slave, He keeps clasped to His bosom, as do father and mother their child.
Sorath 5th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Meeting with the elect my doubt was dispelled not.
The chiefs satisfied me not.
I presented my dispute to the nobles too.
But meeting with the Lord King alone my dispute could be settled.
Now I go not anywhere for search because,
I have met Guru's God, the Lord of the world. Pause.
When I reached the Lord court,
then all the cries of my mind were stilled.
Now that I have received what was destined for me,
where then am I to come and where to go?
There in the Lord's court, the even handed justice is administered.
As is the Master, so is the servant there.
The Inner-Knower knows every thing.
Without even his speaking, understands He Himself the man's object.
He is the King of all the places.
There in His presence, celestial music, resounds.
What cleverness can avail with Him?
Effacing his self conceit, the man meets the Lord, O Nanak.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Enshrine the Name in thy mind,
and sitting in thy very home, meditate Thou on the Guru.
The Perfect Guru has uttered the Truth,
that true peace is obtained from the Lord.
My Guru has become merciful.
Hence with pleasure, peace, satisfaction and joy, I have returned home after taking bath. Pause.
True is the greatness of my Guru,
whose worth cannot be described.
He is the King over the Kings.
Meeting with the Guru, man's mind gather bliss.
All the sins are washed off,
on meeting with the society of saints.
God's Name is the treasure of virtues,
by remembering which the affairs are resolved.
The Guru has opened the Door of Deliverance,
and the whole world greets him with the ovations of victory.
Nanak, the Lord is ever with me,
and hence my fears of birth and death are past.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Perfect Guru has taken pity on me,
and the Lord has fulfilled my desire.
After taking bath, I returned home,
and attained happiness, pleasure and peace.
O saints, through the Lord's name, the mortal is saved.
Upstanding and down-sitting, contemplate thou the Lord God, and, night and day, do thou good deeds. Pause.
The saints' way is the ladder of piety and it is by good fortune that some one scales it.
The sins of millions of births are washed off, by fixing attention on the Lord's feet.
Ever sing thou the praise of thy Lord, who possesses perfect might.
Hearing Satguru's true instructions, all the men and other creatures are rendered pure.
The True Guru has implanted within me the Name, the dispeller of obstructions and the destroyer of all pains.
All my sins are eradicated, I am rendered pure, and have come back to the House of bliss, O slave Nanak.
Sorath, 5th Guru.
My master, Thou are the ocean of excellences.
My home and hosts all art Thine.
The great World-Lord, Thou art my Saviour.
All the beings are compassionate to me.
Meditating on Guru's feet, I remain happy.
Being in the Lord's sanctuary, there is no fear anywhere. Pause.
O Lord, the Enemy of ego, Thou abidest within the mind of Thine.
The Lord has laid the immovable foundation.
Thou art my might, wealth and support.
Thou alone art my All-powerful Lord.
Who-so-ever attains the saints society,
him, the Lord Himself saves.
Taking pity on me, the Lord has blessed me with the Name-Nectar.
For me, then ensued all pleasure and peace.
The Lord has become my Helper,
Every one, then got up and fell at my feet.
With every breath let us contemplate our God,
and Sing the blissful song of the Lord, O Nanak.
Sorath, 5th Guru.
Meeting the Lord, who is pleasing to my mind,
I have attained peace, poise and pleasure.
The Perfect Guru took mercy on me,
and then did I attain salvation.
My soul is absorbed in the lovable devotional service of God.
Within me ever plays the flute of Divine bliss. Pause.
Powerful is the refuge of the Lord's feet,
so my dependence on the people is all past.
I have attained the Beneficent Lord, the Life of the World,
Enthralled with joy, I now sing the God's praise.
The Lord has snapped the noose of the Death's courier.
My hearts desire is fulfilled,
wherever I see now, there He is present.
Without the Lord God, there is not any other.
The Lord has mercifully preserved me.
I am now totally rid of all the sufferings of millions of births.
I have meditated on the Name of the fear free Lord,
and have obtained the eternal bliss, O Nanak.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Creator has brought peace to my home,
and fever has left my family.
The Perfect Guru has saved my honour.
I have sought the protection of the True Lord.
The Supreme Lord Himself has become Protector.
Peace, poise and pleasure have welled within me in an instant and my mind has become comfortable for aye. Pause.
The Lord God has given me the medicine of His Name,
which has rid me of all the diseases.
To me the Lord has extended His mercy,
which has regulated all mine affairs.
The Lord has honoured His creed,
and has not taken into account my merits and demerits.
The Guru's world has become manifest unto me,
which has wholly preserved my honour.
I utter what Thou makest me utter Thou,
O Lord art an ocean of excellences.
Nanak, utters the Name and hears the True Guru's instruction.
The Lord has saved the honour of His slaves.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Creator Lord stood in the midst,
and not even a hair of mine got wry.
My ablution the Guru has rendered fruitful.
Meditating on the Lord Master, my sins have vanished.
O saints, sublime is the tank of Ram Dass.
Who-so-ever bathes therein his lineage is saved, and his own soul is blessed too. Pause.
He who sings His praise,
obtains his heart desired boons.
One is rendered safe and sound, who comes here and takes a bath,
and meditates on his Lord.
Who bathes in the saints tank,
that man obtains the highest status.
He dies not, nor comes, nor goes.
He deliberates over the Lord Master's Name.
He alone knows the Divine reality,
whom the Lord blesseth with His mercy.
He, who seeks the protection of Baba Nanak,
and the Lord, his cares and anxieties are all dispelled.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Supreme Lord has stood by me to the last,
and nothing is now left un-accomplished.
Attaching myself to the Guru's feet, I am saved,
and I now cherish the Lord God's Name.
The Lord is ever the saviour of His slave.
Showering His benediction He has make me His own and saved me. Like mother and father, He cherishes me. Pause.
By good fortune I have attained the True Guru,
who has obliterated the Death's courier path.
To God's meditation in love, my mind is attuned.
Very fortunate art they who live contemplating on the Lord.
The Lord's slave sings the Lord's ambrosial Gurbani.
He bathes in the dust of saints feet.
The Lord Himself blesses him with His Name.
The Creator Lord Himself saves him.
God's glimpse is the support of his very life.
For him this is the perfect and pure wisdom.
Lord, the Reader of hearts extends His mercy to him,
The Lord's serf, Nanak, seeks His refuge alone.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Perfect Guru has attached me to his feet.
So I have obtained God as my comrade and helper.
Where-so-ever I go, I am happy there.
In His mercy, the Lord has united me with Himself.
With superb faith sing thou ever the Lord's praise.
Thou shalt attain all thy heart desired boons and the Lord shall become the Comrade and Helper of thy soul. Pause.
The Pervading God is the prop of my very life.
I am the dust of the feet of the pious persons.
Me, the sinner, the Lord has rendered pure.
The Lord has mercifully blessed me with His praise.
The Supreme Lord ever sustains me.
He is ever with me as the Protector of my soul.
Hymning the God's praise day and night,
the mortal is not cast into the womb again.
He, whom the Lord of our destiny blesseth,
he alone realisheth the essence of Lord.
Death's courier comes not near him.
In the Lord's refuge. Nanak has attained peace.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Perfect Guru has rendered me perfect.
The Lord is fully pervading amongst all.
With peace and pleasure, I, now, take the bath.
Unto the Transcendent Lord, I am as sacrifice.
The Guru's lotus feet, I enshrine in my mind.
Not even a sesame of obstacle comes in my way and all my affairs are perfectly arranged. Pause.
Meeting with the saints, my evil-intellect is obliterated.
This wise, all the sinners are rendered pure.
By taking a bath in the tank of Ram Dass,
all the sins, committed by the, man, are washed off.
For ever sing the praise of the Lord of world,
and by associating with the society of saints contemplate thou on the Master.
The heart-desired fruits are attained,
by contemplating on the Perfect Guru in the mind.
The Guru, my Lord, is blissful.
He lives by remembering constantly the Lord of Supreme bliss.
Slave Nanak, has dwelt on the Lord's Name.
So, honouring His creed, the Lord has blessed him.
Rag Sorath 5th Guru.
In ten directions, the clouds over-shadow the sky like a canopy and the lightning flash of the dense dark clouds terrifies me.
My bridal bed is lonely, my eyes are without sleep and my Beloved spouse has gone abroad.
Now-a-days I receive no message from Him, O mother.
Previously, when my Beloved went out even a mile, then I received some four letters from Him. Pause.
How can I forget this darling Beloved of mine, who is the Giver of all the merits and comforts?
Ascending the mansion, I watch the way of my love and mine eyes are filled with tears.
The wall of pride and ego intervenes between me and Him. He is heard to be close by in the country.
Between me and the Lord is the fine curtain like the wings of a butter-fly but seeing Him not, I deem Him distant.
The Lord of all has become merciful to me and He has dispelled all my pains.
Says Nanak, when the Guru, dismantled the wall of ego, then obtained I the Merciful Master.
All my fears are, now, dispelled, O mother.
Whom I seek, him, the Guru has enabled me to find.
God, the King is the Treasure of all the virtues. Pause Second.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Formless Lord is the Restorer of what is gone, the Liberator from captivity and the Destroyer.
I know not good deeds, I know not Lord's devotion and I am greedy and the lover of wealth.
As I go by the Name of the Lord's saint. My Master, save this honour of Thine.
O reverend Lord, of the unhonoured, Thou art the honour.
The worthless ones, my World-Lord, makes worthy. I am a sacrifice unto Thy Omnipotence. Pause.
As a child, out of love and disposition commits lacs of faults,
and though his father instructs and reprimands him in many ways, yet ultimately he hugs him to his bosom.
So pardon Thou my past misdeeds, O Lord, and put me onto Thy way for the future.
God, the Reader of heart, fully knows all the state of my mind, then, whom else am I to go to tell?
The Lord Master is pleased not with mere utterance of words, If it pleaseth Him, He preserveth man's honour.
O Lord all other shelters have I seen, Thine alone remains for me.
Becoming kind and compassionate, the Lord Master Himself hears my supplication.
He unites me in the union of the Perfect. True Guru and my mind's cares are all dispelled.
The Lord God has put the cure-all of His Name into my mouth and slave Nanak, now, abides in peace.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Remembering and contemplating over the Lord, one abides in bless and is rid of all the sufferings and strifes.
By singing the praise of and reflecting over my Lord, all the affairs of mine are harmonized.
My Master, Thy Name is the Life of the world.
The Perfect Guru has instructed me and remembering the Lord, I have crossed the terrible world ocean. Pause.
O Lord, Thou art Thy own Adviser, Thou Thyself also hearest all and Thou art the Doer of all the deeds.
Thou Thyself art the Giver and Thyself the Enjoyer What power can this poor creature have?
Which of Thy virtues should I recount and narrate? Thy worth cannot be told.
My Lord, I have live by seeing and beholding Thee. Wondrous is Thine greatness.
Extending His mercy, the Lord Master has Himself saved my honour and illumined my intellect.
Ever, ever Nanak is devoted unto the Lord and longs for the dust of saints feet.
Sorath 5th Guru.
I make obeisance unto my Perfect Guru.
The Lord has regulated all my affairs.
The Lord has showered His benediction on me.
The Lord has fully preserved my honour.
Of His slave, the Master has become a refuge.
The Creator has fulfilled all my desires and nothing is left undone. Pause
The Creator Lord has caused the Nectar tank to be made.
The wealth, follows in my foot-steps
and I am now short of nothing.
It so pleases my Perfect True Guru.
On remembering and contemplating on the Merciful Master,
all the beings have become compassionate to me.
Hail! hail! unto the World-Lord,
who has created the perfect creation.
Thou art my great Master.
The gifts and the wealth are all Thine.
Slave Nanak, has remembered the one Lord,
and he has obtained the fruit of all the meritorious deeds.
Sorath 5th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
By bathing in the Nectar-tank of Ram Dass,
all the sins previously committed are washed off.
Having and ablution, one becomes pure.
The Perfect Guru has given this gift.
With pleasure and peace the Lord has blessed all.
Pondering over the Guru's hymns all the things are saved in tact. Pause.
In the society of saints, man's filth is washed off,
and the Supreme Lord becomes his friend.
Nanak has meditated on the Name,
and attained to his Lord, the Primal Being.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Where the Transcendent Lord is ever cherished,
that house the Lord causes to flourish.
When I attained to my Guru, the ocean of peace,
then all my doubts were dispelled.
The glory is in the God's Name.
Night and day through, I sing the Lord's praise.
This boon I have obtained from the Perfect Guru.
Ineffable is the Lord's discourse.
The Lord's slaves utter the ambrosial Gurbani.
Nanak, the Lord's slave, has uttered. it.
Through the Perfect Guru, It is realised.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Here, at first, the Guru has blessed me with bliss,
and hereafter, the Guru has arranged peace and pleasure for me.
I have obtained all the treasure and comforts,
by cherishing my Guru within my mind.
Singing the praise of my True Guru,
I have gathered the fruits of my hearts desire.
O saints, the Guru's glory increases day by day. Pause.
All the creatures, mortals and other beings have become compassionate to me and my Lord Himself has make them such.
Nanak has easily met with the World-Cherisher and he is pleased with the Lord's truth.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Guru's word is my saviour.
It is a guard posted on all sides of mine.
My soul is attached to the Lord's Name,
and so, through shame, the Death's courier has fled away.
O reverend Master, Thou art my Peace Bestower.
The Perfect Creator-Lord snaps my bonds and renders my mind immaculate. Pause.
Nanak, my Lord is imperishable,
and His service goes not in vain.
Thy slaves, O Lord, ever make merry,,
as, by meditating on Thee, their desires are fulfilled.
Sorath 5th Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru,
who ho has wholly saved my honour.
I have obtained the fruit that my heart desired,
and I ever meditate on my Lord.
O saints, without Him, there is not any other.
He, the Lord is the cause of causes. Pause.
My Lord has given me His blessings,
and has make all the creatures subject to me.
When slave Nanak, meditated on the Name,
then all his sorrows departed.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Perfect Guru has dispelled the fever.
The trumpets of spiritual bliss play.
All the comforts, the Lord has blessed me with.
Extending His mercy, the Lord Himself has given them to me.
The true Guru has himself dispelled my distress.
All the disciples and saints have blossomed by remembering the Lord Master's Name. Pause.
They obtain all that, what they ask for.
To His saints, the Lord gives everything.
The Lord has saved Hargobind.
Serf Nanak, utters nothing but truth.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Thou Makest me do, what pleases Thee, O Lord.
I know of no cleverness what-so-ever.
I, a child, seek thine protection.
The Lord Himself saves my honour.
God, the King, Thou art my mother and father.
Thou mercifully cherish me, O Lord and I do whatever Thou makest me do.
The mortals and other creatures are established by Thee,
O Lord. Their nose-string is in Thy hand.
Whatever Thou makest them do,
that alone they do Nanak, thy Serf has sought Thy protection, O Lord.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The God's Name, I have weaved into my mind,
and all my affairs have been resolved.
His mind alone gets attached to the Lord's feet,
whose destiny is perfect.
Meeting with the society of the saints, I have meditated on the Lord.
Reflecting over the Lord God, throughout the eight watches of the day, I have gathered the fruit of my hearts desire. Pause.
The seed of my primal and past deeds has sprouted,
and my mind is attached with the Lord's Name.
In the Lord's vision, my soul and body are absorbed.
Servant Nanak, sings the praise of the True Lord.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Meeting with the Guru, I have cherished the Lord,
and my affairs are all resolved.
Now no one speaks ill of me.
Every one shouts the ovations of my victory.
O saints, I seek the True shelter of the Lord.
All the living beings are under His sway. He, the Lord, is the knower of hearts. Pause.
All my affairs, the Master has resolved.
The Lord has honoured His innate nature.
Purifier of the sinner is the Lord's Name.
Serf Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto the Lord.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Supreme Lord has created and adorned my son.
This small child the Guru has saved.
O father, and mother, make ye merry now.
The Great God is the Giver of soul.
Thine slaves, O Lord, think of sublime things.
Thou savest the honour of Thy slave and Thyself arrangest his affairs, O Lord.
Beneficent is my Lord,
in whose Being Omnipotence is manifest.
Seeking the Lord's shelter, Nanak,
has obtained his heart desired boons.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Ever and ever contemplate I, on the Lord.
The Lord has Himself saved my child.
The Lord has rid him of the small pox.
My trouble are removed by God's Name.
My Lord is ever merciful.
He has hearkened to the prayer of His slave and all the sentient beings are compassionate to him. Pause.
The Omnipotent Lord is the cause of all causes.
Remembering God, all the sorrow vanish.
The Lord has heard the supplication of His slave.
Nanak, everyone, now, sleeps in peace.
Sorath 5th Guru.
I have meditated on my Guru,
meeting whom I have returned home with joy.
Such is greatness of the Lord's Name,
that its worth cannot be expressed.
O saints, remember thou the Lord Master's Name.
Remembering God, ye shall obtain everything and all your affairs shall be adjusted. Pause.
He alone, who is very fortunate,
obtains and is attached to the loving adoration of the Lord.
The Lord's slave, O Nanak, meditates on the Name,
and he obtains the fruit of all the comforts.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Supreme Lord has given me His support,
and the abode of distress and disease is demolished.
The men and women make merry, as,
God, the Lord Master, has extended His mercy to them.
O saints, now there is peace at all the places.
My Transcendent Lord, the Perfect Master, is pervading in all the places. Pause.
From the primal One, has emanated the Gurbani,
and it has effaced all the anxiety.
Compassionate and king is the Lord to me.
Nanak, utters the Name of the True Lord.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Here and hereafter, the Lord is my saviour.
The Divine True Guru is merciful to the meek.
His slaves, He the Lord, Himself saves.
His beauteous world resounds in every heart.
Unto the Guru's feet, I am a sacrifice.
Day and night, at every breath, I remember Him, who is fully filling all the places. Pause.
The Lord Himself has become my support.
True is the support of the True Lord.
Glory is in Thine worship, O Lord,
and Nanak has obtained it by seeking Thine shelter.
Sorath 5th Guru.
When it so pleased the Perfect True Guru,
then repeated I the pervading God's Name.
The Master, the world-Lord took pity on me,
and God has saved my honour.
God's feet are ever peace-giving.
Whatever fruit the mortal desires, that he attains and his hope goes not in vain. Pause.
The saint, to whom Beneficent God, the Lord of life, extends His mercy, He alone hymns His praise.
He, who is pleasing to the mind of the Transcendent Lord, his soul is absorbed in the Lord's loving adoration.
Uttering the Lord's praise through the eight watches of the day, the poisonous potion of mammon affects not.
My creator has united me with Himself and the saints and holy men have become my comrades.
Holding me by the hand, the Lord has given me everything and blender me with His ownself.
Says, Nanak, I have obtained the Perfect True Guru, through whom all my affairs are fulfilled.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Humility is my spiked mace.
To be the dust of the dust of all men's feet is my two-edged dagger.
These weapons no evil-doer can withstand.
The Lord God's has conveyed this thing to me.
The Lord God's Name is the saints. Pause.
He, who remember the Lord's Name, is emancipated and through It self hosts of millions of men have been saved. Pause.
In the saints society, I hymn the Lord's praise.
This perfect wealth of God's Name, I have attained.
Says Nanak, I have effaced my self-conceit,
and now I see the Transcendent Lord, all over.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Perfect Guru has done the perfect thing.
With His grace, he has blessed me.
I ever attain pleasure and peace.
In all places the mortals abide in peace.
God's meditation is the grantor of boons.
By His grace, the Perfect Guru has blessed me, with it. Rare is the one who realises its worth. Pause.
Sing thou the Guru's word, O brother.
That is ever fruitful and peace-giving.
Nanak has meditated on the Name,
and has obtained what was predestined for him.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Meditating on the Perfect Guru,
all the affairs are perfected.
All the desires are fulfilled,
and unblown trumpets blow within the man.
O saints, remembering the Lord, I have attained peace.
In the saints abode celestial peace abides, and troubles are dispelled. Pause.
The hymns of the Perfect Guru,
are pleasing to the Transcendent Lord's mind.
Slave Nanak has uttered,
the immaculate and ineffable story of the Lord.
Sorath 5th Guru.
As a hungry man is not ashamed while eating,
similarly God's slave shyeth not from singing God's praise.
Why art thou slothful in thine own business?
Remembering thou, Him, by whose meditation, thy face shall be immaculate in the Lord's Court, and thou shalt ever and ever obtain peace. Pause.
As a lustful man is enticed by lust,
so is the God's slave pleased with God's praise. Pause.
As the mother is clung to her child,
so does the divine cherish the Lord's Name.
He, who is blessed with it by the Perfect Guru,
meditates on the Name, O serf Nanak.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Safe and sound, I have come back to my home.
The slanderer's face is besmeared with ashes.
The Perfect Guru has dressed me with the robe of honour.
All my sufferings are ended.
O saints, Glory be to the True Lord,
who has created what is wondrous and glorious. Pause.
I utter the Lord's will.
The Lord's slave uttereth the Lord's hymns.
Nanak, Bliss-bestowing is my Master,
who has created the perfect creation.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Within my mind, I meditate on my Lord.
Safe and sound, I have returned home.
The world has now acquired contentment.
The Perfect Guru, has saved me.
O saints, my Master is ever merciful.
God, the World-Cherisher, calls not account from his saints, and preserves him as His child. Pause.
I have clasped God's Name to my heart,
and He, the Lord has perfected all mine affairs.
Being pleased, the Perfect Guru, has blessed me with the Name,
hence, Nanak shall suffer no further agony.
Sorath 5th Guru.
He, the Lord abides in my mind and body,
and every one, now, applauds me.
The glory of the perfect Guru is such,
that its worth cannot be told.
I am a sacrifice unto Thy Name, O Lord.
He, whom Thou forgivest, O my Beloved, hymns Thy praise. Pause.
Thou art my great Lord.
The saints have only Thine reliance.
Nanak has sought the Lord's refuge.
The slanderer's face is besmeared with ashes.
Sorath 5th Guru.
My friend, for me, hereafter peace,
and hitherto happiness has been arranged by my Lord.
The Lofty Lord has caused such arrangements,
that my soul wobbles not any more, again.
With the True Lord my mind is now, reconciled.
I realise God within all. Pause.
All the beings art Thine, O Merciful Master.
Thou cherisheth Thine saints, O Lord.
Marvellous is Thy grandeur.
Nanak remembers ever the Lord's Name.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Pervading God is with me.
So the death's courier draws, not near me.
Hugging me to His bosom, the Lord preserves me.
True is the True Guru's instruction.
The Perfect Guru has done the perfect thing.
He has beaten and warded off all mine enemies and has given me, his slave, the sublime understanding. Pause.
The Lord has caused all the places to prosper.
Safe and sound, I have returned home, again.
Nanak has entered the Lord's sanctuary,
which has rid him of all the diseases.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The True Guru is the giver of all the comforts: Seek, thou, his protection, O man.
Seeing his sight, bliss ensues, pain is dispelled, and the man hymns God's praise.
O brother, quaff thou the God's elixir.
Utter thou the Name, remember the name and enter thou the Perfect Guru's sanctuary. Pause.
He alone receives the name, who is so pre-destined, He alone becomes perfect, O brother.
O sire Lord, Nanak's prayer is that he may remain absorbed in the love of Thy Name.
Sorath 5th Guru.
God, the knower of hearts is the cause. He saves the honour of His slave.
Then is he hailed in the world and tastes he, the Nectar of the Guru's Hymns.
O reverend Master, the Lord of the world, thou art my only support.
Thou, O Omnipotent Lord, art the Giver of protection. Throughout the eight watches of the day, I meditate on Thee. Pause.
The man, who embraces Thine meditation, O Lord him, no anxiety befalls.
Being attached to Guru's feet, his fear is dispelled, and within him mind, he sings the Lord's praise.
He abides in spiritual bliss and many a joy; the True Guru has extended him solace.
Having attained victory, he returns home with honour and his desire is fulfilled.
Perfect is the Guru, whose instruction is also perfect and perfect are the Lord's deeds.
Repairing to the Guru's feet, Nanak has recited the Lord Master's Name and has crossed the terrible world ocean.
Sorath 5th Guru.
God, the Destroyer of the sufferings of the meek, has become merciful and He has Himself devised all the devices.
In a trice, the Lord has saved His servant and the Perfect Guru has cut off his fetters.
O my soul, ever remember thou, thy Guru God.
All the ills shall depart from this body of thine shalt obtain the fruits thy heart desires. Pause.
Lofty, Inaccessible and Infinite is the Lord, who has created all the living begins.
Nanak recites the Name in the society of saints and his face shall become bright in the Lord's court.
Sorath 5th Guru.
I meditate on my Lord,
and day and night I ever remember Him.
I have been saved by His extended hand,
and I have quaffed the supreme Nectar of the name of the Lord.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru.
The Omnipresent, Beneficent Lord is merciful to me, so, the mortals too have become king to me. Pause.
Slave Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the Lord,
who has perfectly saved his honour.
The Lord has dispelled all the ills;
so, enjoy, ye the bliss, O my brother.
Sorath 5th Guru.
Hear, Thou, my prayer, O my Master. The men and other beings are created by Thee.
O Lord, the Doer and the Prompter of actions, uphold Thou, the honour of Thy Name.
O my Loved Lord, make me Thine own.
Whether bad or good, I am Thine. Pause.
The Omnipotent Lord hearkened to my supplication and cutting off my fetters, He has adorned me.
The Lord dressed me with the robe of honour, blended me, His attending slave, with Himself and Nanak become renowned in the world.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The Lord has subjected all the sentient beings to the saints, all of whom are the servants of His court.
Their Lord has hugged them to His bosom, and ferried them across the terrible world ocean.
The Lord harmonizes all the affairs of His saints.
The Compassionate to the poor, the Merciful, the Ocean of Kindness and the Omnipresent Lord is my master. Pause.
Everywhere am I welcomed and respected, and I am devoid of nought.
The Lord blesses His devoted slave with the robe of honour; O Nanak, in this way the glory of the Lord becomes manifest.
Sorarh 9th Guru.
There is but One God by True Guru's grace is He obtained.
O man, bear thou love with the Lord.
With thine ears, hear the praise of the Lord of the World and with thy tongue, sing, thou His song. Pause.
Join the society of saints, and contemplate, thou, on the Lord of wealth, thus, from a sinner, thou, shalt be holy.
Death roams about like a serpent with wide-open mouth, O friend.
To-day or tomorrow, it shall, then, seize thee; understand this in thy mind.
Says Nanak, meditate on thy Lord, thy opportunity is passing away.
Sorath 9th Guru.
The mind's desire remains in the mind unfulfilled.
The man neither remembers God, nor performs service at shrines, and death him by the tuft. Pause.
The wife, friends, sons, carriages, property, entire, wealth, the whole world and all these things,
consider that those are false and the Lord's meditation alone is true.
Grown weary of wandering about for many yugas, the man has obtained the human body.
Says Nanak, there is now a chance to meet the Lord. Why rememberest thou not Him, O man?
Sorath 9th Guru.
O man, What evil understanding hast thou harboured?
Thou art engrossed in the pleasure of other men's women and in slander, and the Pervading God, thou worship not. Pause.
Thou knowest not the way to emancipation, but runnest about to amass wealth.
At last nothing shall keep company with thee; in vain hast thou entangled thyself.
Thou meditatest not on God, nor servest thou Guru, the Lord's slave, nor gnosis wells up in thee.
The Immaculate Lord is within thy mind, but thou searchest Him in the wilderness.
Thou hast grown weary of wandering in good many births, and still hast not acquired abiding wisdom.
Having now obtained the human body, remember, thou the God's feet. Nanak gives thee this advice.
Sorath 9th Guru.
O man, think thou of seeking the Lord's protection.
By meditating on whom, the courtesan was saved, His praise enshrine thee in thy mind. Pause.
Meditate thou on Him, by whose meditation, Dhru became immortal and obtained the state of fearlessness.
My Lord is such a Remover of anguish; why hast thou forgotten Him?
No sooner, did the elephant take the protection of the Ocean of mercy than he escaped from the crocodile.
How far can I describe the praise of the Name? Who-so-ever utters the Lord's Name, his bonds break.
Ajamal, a known sinner in the world, in an instant, was redeemed.
Says Nanak, remember, thou, the Jewel which grants all wishes and thou too shalt be ferried across.
Sorath 9th Guru.
What efforts should the mortal make.
By which he may obtain the Lord's devotional service, and his fear of death may be dispelled? Pause.
Be it known what deeds, what sort of knowledge, and then what religious ceremonies should he practise?
What is that great Name, remembering which, the mortal crosses the dreadful ocean?
In the dark age, there is only the Name of the Treasure of mercy, by uttering which, the man obtains salvation.
No other religion is at par with that and like this tell the Vedas.
He who is called the Lord of universe, is above weal and woe and He is ever detached.
He, the Lord, abides within thy inner-self, like the reflection in a mirror, O Nanak.
Sorath 9th Guru.
O my mother, in what way can I see the Lord of the World?
In the darkness of intense worldly attachments and spiritual ignorance, my mind remains entangled. Pause.
The whole life, I have lost, deluded by doubt, and have not obtained the stable mind.
Night and day, I remain under the influence of sins and abandon not my meanness.
I never join the society of saints, nor hymn I the Lord's praise.
Slave Nanak, there is no virtue in me. Keep me in Thine sanctuary O Lord.
Sorath 9th Guru.
My mother, my mind is not under my control.
Night and day, it runs after sins, In What way should I restraint it? Pause.
Hearing the teachings of the Vedas, Puranas, and Simirtis, one enshrines them not in the heart even for an instant.
Engrossed with other's wealth and other's women, He passes his life in vain.
He has gone mad with the wine of mammon, and knows not even a bit of divine knowledge.
Within his mind abides the mammon-free Lord, but he knows not His secret.
The moment I entered the saints sanctuary all my evil intent was dispelled.
O Nanak, then remembered I the wish-fulfilling Lord and my death's noose was snapped.
Sorath 9th Guru.
O man, hold this for certain in thy mind.
As the whole world is like a dream, in its destruction, there shall be no delay. Pause.
As a wall of sand, built and plastered with care, lasts not even for four days,
Likewise are the pleasure of mammon. Why art thou entangled in them. O ignorant man?
This very day come to thy senses. No harm is yet done. So utter thou the Name of the Lord, the Enemy of pride.
Says Nanak, with a vies to chasten thy soul, I have loudly proclaimed it to thee, O man.
Sorath 9th Guru.
I have seen no friend in this world.
The whole world is attached to its own comforts and, in trouble, none is your companion. Pause.
Thy wife, friends, sons and kinsmen are all attached to wealth.
When they see the man poor, they all forsake his company and flee.
What should I say to this demented mind, which has embraced affection for them?
It has forgotten the praise of Him, who is the Master of the meek and the Destroyer of all fear.
As a dog's tail straightens not ever, so the mind comes not round despite good many efforts on my part.
Says Nanak, uphold Thou the honour of Thy own creed, O Lord, I have uttered Thine Name.
Sorath 9th Guru.
O man, thou hast not embraced the Guru's teaching.
What availeth thee to shave thy head, and to put on an ochre-dyed garment? Pause.
Abandoning truth, thou art clung to falsehood and art wasting away thy life in vain.
Practising hypocrisy, thou fillest thy belly, and sleepst like a beast.
Thou knowest the way to Lord's meditation, and hast sold thyself in mammon's hand.
The mad men remains entangled with the vices, and forgets the jewel of the Name.
He remains thoughtless, and thinks not of the World-Lord and passes his life in vain.
Says Nanak, O God, recognise Thy innate nature of forgiveness; ever errable is this mortal.
Sorath 9th Guru.
The man, who in pain, feels not pain,
who is affected not by pleasure, love and fear and deems gold as dust. Pause.
He who is swayed not by slander or, praise and who suffers not from greed, worldly love or pride,
and who remains unaffected by joy or sorrow and who cares not about honour or dishonour;
and he who renounces all hope and yearning, remains desire-free in the world,
and whom lust and wrath touch not, within his mind abides the Lord.
The man, who is blessed with the grace of the Guru, understands, he, the way to this.
He, O Nanak, blends with the World-Lord, as water mingles with water.
Sorath 9th Guru.
O dear friend, realise it in Thy mind,
that the world is entangled in its own comfort and no body is anyone else's friend. Pause.
In prosperity, many persons come and sit together encircling thee on the four sides.
When adversity befalls thee, all abandon thy company and no one comes near thee.
The house wife, with whom thou hast great love and who ever remains attached to thee,
when the soul leaves the body, she flees away from it crying "Ghost! Ghost!"
This is the way of the conduct of those, with whom we bear love.
At the last moment, O Nanak, save the sire Lord, none is of any avail.
Ashtpadis Chautukas. Sorath 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
I read not regarding duality, worship not any but my God and visit nor mausoleums or crematoriums.
Engrossed in desire, I enter not strange house. The Name has stilled my desire.
Within my mind, the Guru has shown me the Lord's abode and my soul is imbued with equipoise, O brother.
Thou Thyself art wise and Thyself all-seeing and it is only Thee, O Lord, who givest wisdom.
My detached soul is imbued with dispassion and the Name has penetrated my mind, O my mother.
He who bears love to the True Lord and continuously repeats Gurbani, beholds His light within his mind. Pause.
Countless world renouncers talk or renunciation, but he alone, is the true renouncer who is pleasing to the Master.
He treasures the Name in the heart, ever remains absorbed in the Lord's fear and serves the Guru.
The One Lord, he remembers, his mind wavers not and he stops and restrains the mind's wanderings.
He is inebriated with the Divine pleasure and is ever imbued with Lord's love and sings he the praise of the True one.
If the man's wind-like mind rests in peace, even for a trice, he shall abide in the Name-bliss O brother.
His tongue, eyes and ears are imbued with truth. His fire (of worldly passions) is extinguished and Thou, O Lord, hast quenched it.
In hope, the world-renouncer remains desireless and in his very home he assumes profound trance.
The contented person remains sated with the alms of the Name and easily quaffs Lord's Nectar.
In double-mindedness and so long as there is even a particle of duality there can be no renunciation of the world.
The entire world is Thine O Lord, Thou, alone art the giver and there is not any other, O brother.
The perverse person ever abides in misery but to the Guru-ward, the Lord gives greatness.
Infinite, Boundless, Inaccessible and Inapprehensible is the Lord and His worth cannot be ascertained by speaking.
The Embracer of primordial trance, the Exceedingly supreme being and the Lord of three worlds art Thine Names, O Master.
The creatures born in this world have their destinies recorded on their foreheads and everyone bears what is destined for him.
The Lord Himself causes man to perform evil deeds and good deeds and He Himself makes him steadfast in His worship.
Abiding in the Lord's feat, the filth of man's mind and mouth is washed off and the inaccessible Lord Himself blessed him with gnosis.
They alone, who taste it, know its relish like a dumb man enjoying sweets.
How can I describe the Indescribable, O my brother? Ever abide I in His will.
If the Lord makes man meet the beneficent Guru, then is the understanding produced. The Guru-less has not understanding.
As the Lord causes us to act, so do we act. What other cleverness can man adopt, O brother?
Some are deluded in doubt and some are imbued with Thy meditation. Thine play is incomprehensible.
As Thou, O Lord, engagest them, so do they gather the fruit. Thou alone art the order-issue.
I may perform Thy service, if I have anything of my own, my soul and body are Thine, O Lord.
God shows mercy to him who meets with the true God and the Nectar Name becomes his support.
Such a man abides in heaven and in him become manifest virtues, and in virtues dwell the divine knowledge and contemplation.
The Name is pleasing to his mind, he utters and makes others utter it and speaks nothing but truth.
The profound and unfathomable Name is his Guru and the spiritual guide. Without the Name the world is gone mad.
He, whose soul is pleased with the True Name, O Nanak, is a perfect renouncer and naturally very fortunate.
Sorath 1st Guru Tituki.
Hope and desire are entanglements, O brother, and rituals and religious ceremonies are the entrapments.
As a result of bad deeds and God acts, the mortal is born in the world. Forgetting the Name, he is ruined O brother.
This mammon is the enticer of the world, O brother and all the deeds done in its wake are sinful.
Hear me, thou, O Brahman, the ritualist.
The religious rite from which happiness springs, O brother, that is the real meditation of the essence of soul (Lord's Name). Pause.
Thou standest and recitest the Shashtras and the Vedas, but thou doest the deed of a worldly man, O brother.
Within thee is the filth of sins and this filth cannot be washed away through hypocrisy, O brother.
In this very way the spider too is destroyed, by tumbling over head long, O brother.
Be evil inclinations, many are ruined, O brother, and by love of another, they go astray.
Without the True Guru, the Name is not obtained, O brother and without the name, doubt departs not.
If man serves the True Guru, then obtains he the peace and his comings and goings come to an end, O brother.
True equipoise is obtained from the Guru, O brother and the immaculate soul is absorbed in the True Lord.
He, who serves the Guru, comes to knows the way, O brother. Without the Guru, the way is not found.
What good acts can he perform, who has avarice in his mind? He eats poison by telling lies, O brother.
O Pandit, if thou churnest curd, the butter comes out of it.
By churning water, thou shalt see but water, O brother. This world is a water like thing.
Without the Guru, the man is ruined by doubt, O brother. The unseen Lord abides in every heart.
This world is like the cotton thread, which the mammon, has tied on the ten sides, O brother.
Without the Guru, the knot is untied not, O brother, men grow weary of performing rituals.
This world is led astray by superstition, O brother, Regarding it, man can say but nothing.
Meeting with the Guru, the Lord's fear abides in the mind, O brother. To die in the Lord's fear is man's destiny.
In God's court, the Name is superior to ablutions, alms and other good acts, O brother.
He, who by Guru's goad fixes the name within him, is freed from hypocrisy and God abides in his mind.
This body is the jeweler's shop and the unrivalled Name is the Stock therein, O brother.
The merchant who deliberates over the Guru's instruction, O brother, he securely secures this merchandise.
Nanak, blessed is the trader, who on meeting the Guru, engages in this trade.
Sorath 1st Guru.
They, who serve the True Guru, O my dear, their associates too are saved. as well.
None obstructs their entry in the Lord's court, as the God's Nectar Name is on their tongue.
They, who are heavy, without Lord's fear, are drowned but by His grace, He ferries them across O dear.
My Beloved, I praise Thee ever, and in every case sing I Thine eulogies.
Without the ship, the man is drowned in the sea of fear, O Beloved, How can he get at the yonder shore? Pause.
I praise the praise-worthy Lord, O dear and there is not any other worthy of praise.
Sublime are they, who eulogise my Lord, O dear, They are imbued with the Name and blessed with the Lord's love.
If I meet with their society, O dear, I would gather bliss by (pondering over) or (churning) the reality.
The gate-pass to honour is of Truth and on it is the stamp of the True Name, O dear.
Coming into this world, one should depart with such written gate pass O dear. Realise thou, O man, the command of the Commanding Lord.
Without the Guru, Lord's order is not understood, O dear, True is the might of the True Lord.
In Lord's will, the mortal is conceived, O dear and in Lord's will, he thrives in the womb.
In Lord's will is he born, O dear, upturned with head down wards.
The Guru-ward is honoured in the Lord's court and he departs after arranging his affair.
Under Lord's flat, man comes into the world, and under his flat he goes to the next place.
By Lord's will, is he bound down and despatched, O dear, The perverse person suffers punishment.
By Lord's will the Name is realised, O dear, and man goes to His court adorned in the robe of honour.
In His will, one enters into accounts, O dear, and in His will, he is infested with ego and duality.
Goaded by Lord's will, the mortal wanders about and beguiled by demerits, he bewails, O dear.
If man realises the wealthy Lord's will, he is blessed with truth, and receives honour, O dear.
Difficult it is to utter the Name. How can we, then utter and hear the True Name?
They who praise that Lord, O dear, unto them I am a sacrifice.
Obtaining the Lord's Name I am satiated, O dear, and by God's grace, I am united in His union.
My dear, if my body becomes the paper and if my mind be an inkpot,
and if my tongue be the pen, then I would thoughtfully write the excellences of the True God.
Blessed is the scribe, O Nanak, who inscribes and enshrines the True Name in his mind.
Sorath 1st Guru Dutuki.
My immaculate Lord, Thou art the Giver of virtues, but my soul becomes not immaculate O brother.
I am a sinner and meritless and from Thee alone can those merits be obtained, O Lord.
My Beloved Creator, having created Thine creation, Thou beholdest it.
I am a sinner and an hypocrite. Install within my mind and body Thine sublime Name, O Lord. Pause.
The poisonous mammon has bewitched the man's mind, and through cleverness he loses his honour, O brother.
If Guru-given Divine knowledge permeates man's heart, the True Lord abides in his mind, O brother.
Beauteous, beauteous in said to be the Lord. He is beautiful like the red poppy-flower.
If man bears love to God, O brother, he is accounted as true and infallible in His court and mansion.
Thou, O Lord, art pervading the under-world and sky and amongst all the hearts art Thine merits and wisdom.
Meeting with the Guru, the man is blessed with peace, and pride is dispelled from his mind.
Rubbing with water, the body is cleaned, but the body again gathers dirt.
Bathing with the great elixir of gnosis the soul and body are rendered pure.
Why worship goddesses and gods O brother; what can one ask from them and what can they give him?
The stone gods are washed with water, O brother, but they themselves sink in water.
Without the Guru, the unseen Lord is not seen and the world is drowned, shorn of its honour.
The, greatness is in the hand of my Lord, O brother he gives it to him alone, whom He likes.
The bride, who talks sweetly and tells the truth, becomes pleasing to her groom, O brother.
Pierced through with her Lord's love, she abides in truth and remains deeply imbue with God's Name.
Every one calls God his own, O brother, but it is through the Guru that the Omniscient Lord is known.
They, who are pierced through with their Lord's love, are saved and they are stamped with the True Name.
As an amassed heap of fire-wood is burnt off by applying a little fire,
O brother, likewise the Name burns off the sins, even if it abides for a moment and trice in the mind. Then the mortal easily meets with the Lord.
Sorath 3rd Guru Tituki.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Thou, O dear Lord, ever preserve the dignity of Thine saints and from the very. beginning.
Thou hast been safeguarding their honour; Thou, O reverend God, rescued Prahlad, Thy slave and utterly annihilated Harnakhsh.
The Guru-wards have faith in Thee, but the apostates go astray in doubt,
O beloved Lord, O Venerable God, this is Thine glory.
Thou savest the honour of Thine devotee Thine devotees seek Thy refuge, O Lord. Pause.
God's slave, the Death's courier dare not touch, nor can death draw near them.
The Lord's Name alone dwells within their mind and only through the Name, obtains they, the salvation.
Wealth and super-natural powers, all fall at the saints, feet, as they are blessed with equipoise and sublime faith by the Guru.
The Perverse have no faith in the Guru Within them there is greed and self-interest.
They realise not the name in their mind, through the Guru, nor do they enshrine affection for the God's Name.
The gilt of falsehood and hypocrisy shall fade away. An apostate ever talks dryly.
Thou Thyself workest through Thine saints, O dear Lord and through Thine devotees Thou art known.
All the mortals engrossed in the love of wealth, are Thine and Thou alone art Creator Lord.
Stilling my egotism and nipping the desire in the very mind, I have realised the Lord through the Guru's instruction.
The Lord automatically accomplishes the tasks of those, to whom the Name of God is dear.
By Guru's grace, He, who arranges all the affairs, ever abides within their mind.
Who-so-ever rivals those, who have the Lord God as their saviour, he is destroyed.
Without serving the True Guru, no one has ever attained the Lord. The egocentrics die yelping and wailing.
They come and go and find no place of rest and in utter pain, they perish.
He, who turns Guru-ward, drinks the Nectar and is easily absorbed in the True Name.
Without the True Guru's service, birth and death leaves not man, through the may perform very many rituals.
He who reads the Vedas and indulges in controversies, loses his honour without God.
True is the Satguru, whose word is True Repairing to the Guru's refuge one is emancipated.
They, within whose mind God abides, are exonerated in the Lord's court; They are acclaimed as true in the True court.
Their praise resounds all the ages through and none can unto it.
Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto those, who keep the Lord enshrined in their mind.
Sorath 3rd Guru. Dotuki.
Engaging them to the True Guru's service, the Lord Himself forgives the meritless ones.
Sublime is the True Guru's service, since it attaches one's mind to the Lord's Name.
The dear Lord Himself forgiveth and uniteth the mortal with Himself.
I am a virtueless sinner, O brother. The Perfect True Guru has united me with his congregation. Pause.
Good many sinners have been pardoned by meditating on the True Name, O dear.
Embarking them on the True Guru's ship, the Lord ferried them across the dreadful world ocean.
From rusted iron I have been transformed into gold, by uniting in the union of Guru, the philosopher's stone, O brother.
Stilling self-conceit, the Name has taken abode in my mind, and my light has merged in the Supreme Light.
I am a sacrifice, I am a sacrifice, I am ever a sacrifice unto my True Guru, O brother.
I am absorbed in celestial bliss, through the teaching of the Guru, who has given me the Name treasure.
Without the Guru, equanimity is produced not. Go and consult the theologians.
Eradicating selfhood from within O brother, ever perform thou the True Guru's service.
By Guru's instruction, God's fear is produced and true and sublime are the deeds done under God's fear.
Then is one blessed with the wealth of Lord's Love and the mainstay of the True Name.
They, who serve their True Guru, I fall at their feet, O brother.
I have adorned my human birth and procured pardon for my progeny as well.
The True hymns of the True Name, O brother, are obtained by Guru's grace.
O Nanak, no obstacle befalls him within whose mind the Lord's Name abides.
Sorath 3rd Guru.
The dear Lord is known through the instruction of the Guru, who is met by the perfect destiny.
The happy brides ever abide in peace, O brother They bear love to their Lord and night and day remain imbued therewith.
O good God, Thou Thyself givest the tinge of Thy love.
Bear thou love with God, O brother and being so imbued with love, continually sing thou His praise. Pause.
Abandon thy self-conceit and fix thy attention on the performance of Guru's service, O brother.
Thus shalt thou ever abide in peace, O brother, sorrow shall visit thee not again and God Himself shall come and dwell within thy mind.
She, who realises not the will of her Beloved is an ill-mannered and had bride.
Through her mind's obstinacy, she does the deeds and bereft of the Name, she is false, O brother.
They, alone sing the Lord's praise, O brother, on whose brow good luck is recorded. Through the True Lord's love they become detached.
Cultivating love for the fearless Guru and imbued therewith, night and day, they utter the Lord's praise, O brother.
Day and night serve Him, O brother who destroys and revives all.
Within our mind, why should we forget Him, O brother, whose gift is so great?
The way-ward bride is filthy and double-minded, O brother, and in the Lord's court, she finds no place of rest.
If she turns Guru-wards, then, utters she the Lord's praise and meeting her True Beloved, merges in Him, O brother.
In this life, she meditates not on the Lord, O brother. What face shall she show going hereafter?
Inspite of the warning-calls being sounded, she is plundered, O brother, and craves only for sins.
They, who remember the Name, abide in peace, and ever joyful and clam remains their body.
Nanak, utter thou the name of the Limitless, Meritorious and Unfathomable Lord, O brother.
Sorath 5th Guru. Ashtpadis.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
He, who has created the entire world, O brother, is Omnipotent to do all the deeds.
He is the Lord who has fashioned the soul and body by using His power.
How is He to be described and how to be seen? The Creator is unique and indescribable, O brother.
Praise thou thy Guru-God, O brother, from whom thou shalt know the quintessence.
O my soul, remember thou thy fortunate Lord.
The Lord, Destroyer of sorrow and suffering, blesses His slave with the benefaction of the Name. Pause.
In whose Home every thing is there, and whose store-houses are brimful with nine treasures;
His worth cannot be ascertained, O brother and He is lofty, unapproachable and Infinite.
He cherishes the human beings and other creatures, and day-in and day out, takes care of them, O brother.
Meet thou, the perfect True Guru, O brother, who by his instruction, shall unite thee with the Lord.
By adoring the True Lord's feet, O brother, doubt and dread are dispelled.
Joining the society of saints, cleanse the soul, O brother, and then, thou shalt abide in the Lord's Name.
The darkness of ignorance shall be dispelled and thy heart-lotus shall bloom, O brother.
By Guru's word, well up all the comforts; all the fruits are with the True Guru, O brother.
Give up thy mine and thine and be thou the dust of the feet of all, O brother.
Among all the hearts the Lord is contained and He sees and hears as if just close at hand.
The day one forgets the supreme Lord, O brother, that day one ought to die of repentance.
The Lord is Omnipotent to do and to have done everything; He is possessed of all the powers. O brother.
The Lord's love and Name is the wealth, through which man's attachment with mammon is dispelled.
If He so wills, then unites He the man with Himself, and the Name abides within his mind, O brother.
Through the Guru, the heart-lotus flowers and the Lord's light illumines the mind, O brother.
The Lord's glory has become manifest and the earth and sky have blossomed, O brother.
The Perfect Guru has blessed me with contentment and day and night, I remain attached with Lord's love.
My tongue ever utters the Lord's Name, O brother, and this alone is the true relish and object of human life.
I live continually hearing with mine ears, the Lord's Name, O brother, and I have attained a permanent seat.
The soul, which reposes not faith in the Lord, may God, that soul be burnt down.
Myriads of virtues are in my Lord, O brother and unto Him, I am a sacrifice.
He nurtures even the meritless ones, O brother and gives shelter to the shelterless.
He, whose Name is everlasting, extends sustenance to us at every breath.
He, who meets with the True Guru, O brother perfect in his destiny.
I live not, even for a moment without Him, who is brimful with all the powers, O brother.
With no breath and morsel of mine I forget Him. O brother and I ever see the Lord just present.
The saints society has make me meet Him, who is fully-pervading everywhere, O brother.
They, who imbibe not love for their Lord, ever and ever continue repeating, O brother.
Attaching to His skirt, the Lord has ferried me across the world ocean of fear and pain.
By His gracious glance He has make me happy and He shall stand by me to the infinite end.
My soul and body are clamed down and they are sustained by the fare of the Name.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of Him, O brother, who is the Destroyer of sins.
Sorath 5th Guru.
The mother's womb is an ocean of pains, O dear; there too, the Lord causes His Name to be repeated.
Emerging out, his evil passions develop, O and his love for worldly valuables increases.
He, to whom thou Thyself hast shown favour, him, thou hast causes to meet the Perfect Guru, O my Beloved.
He then remembers his God at every breath and comes to enshrine love for the Lord's Name.
O Beloved, Thou art the mainstay of my soul and body, Thou art the mainstay of my soul and body.
Without Thee, there is not another Creator and Thou alone art the knower of hearts. Pause.
The mortal comes into the world, O my Beloved, after wandering in myriads of births and suffering pain in various existences.
He forgets the True Lord, O dear and so suffers heavy punishment.
They, who meet with the Perfect True Guru, O dear, are attached to the True Name.
We are saved by following those, who seek the protection of the True Lord.
Deeming sweet, what the man eats, O dear, that makes the body ill.
It turns out to be bitter, O dear and from it results sadness.
Causing man to enjoy revelments, the Lord has strayed him, and his separation from the Lord ends not, O dear.
Being introduced to the Guru, they who are saved, O dear, their lot was so writ by the Lord.
Man is full of longing for wealth and the Lord enters not his mind ever.
They who forget thee, O supreme Lord Master their bodies becomes dust.
They cry and shriek piteously, O Beloved, but their anguish ceases not.
Causing to meet the Guru, they, whom thou regeneratest, O my Beloved, their capital remains intact.
As far as it is in thy power, O dear, associate thou not with the mammon-worshipper.
Meeting with whom, God is forgotten, O dear, he arises and departs with a black face.
The perverse get no refuge, O dear, and are punished in the Lord's court.
They, who, meeting with the Guru, reform themselves their affairs are adjusted.
Man may practise thousands of self-mortifications and clevernesses, O dear, but not even one avails him.
They, who are the disbelievers in the World-Lord, their family is branded with stigma.
The thing that is (ever valid), the man knows not, O dear Falsehood shall avail him not.
They, whom the Beloved introduces to the True Guru, remember the True Name.
He, on whom the Lord casts His merciful glance, is blessed with truth, contentment, gnosis and contemplation.
Night and day he sings and utters the praise of the Beloved Lord, and his mind is fully filled with the Nectar-Name.
He crosses the sea of grief and swims across the dreadful world ocean.
He, whom Thou likest, O Beloved, him, Thou unitest with Thee and he alone is ever true.
The Bright Lord is Omnipotent and compassionate and His devotees have His support alone.
I have surrendered to the refuge of Him, O dear, who is wise and the knower of hearts.
My Beloved has attuned me in this world as well as the next, and He has affixed His true seal on my forehead.
That Lord, I forget not ever, O dear, Unto Him, Nanak is ever a sacrifice.
Sorath 5th Guru. Ashtpadis.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, Is He obtained.
The man, reads holy texts and studies the Vedas. he practises inner-washing and breath control.
But the escapes not from the company of the five evil passions and is all the more tied to haughty disposition.
My dear, by these methods, the Lord is met not, and I have performed many such rituals.
I have dropped down weary at the Lord's door and pray for the grant of discerning intellect. Pause.
Man may remain mum, make his hands the leaf-plate and wander naked in the forest,
and he may visit river banks, shrines and the whole earth, but duality leaves him not.
With him mind's desire he may go and abide at a place of pilgrimage and place his head under the saw,
but his soul's impurity departs not thus, even though he may make lakhs of efforts.
He may be a man of bounty and give gifts of many sorts, like gold, women, horses and elephants.
He may offer corn, clothes and lands in abundance, but he arrives not at the Lord's door.
He may remain attached, in love, to worship, adoration, prostrate salutation and six rites.
He takes pride, nay, excessive pride and falls into entanglements, By these means, he can meet not God.
The knowledge of the Yoga modes of union with the Lord and of the eighty four sitting postures of the men of miracles; He grows weary practising these as well.
He may attain long life, but without obtaining association with God, he is born again and again.
He may enjoy royal sports, indulge in the Kingly ostentations, and issue unchangeable orders.
He may have beauteous couches perfumed with the sandal aloe-wood scent. Such things lead him to the door of terrible hell.
Singing of God's praise in the saints society is the highest of all the deeds.
Says Nanak, he alone obtains it. who is pre-destined to receive it.
Thy slave, O Lord, is inebriated with this love of Thine.
The destroyer of the anguish of the meek has become merciful unto me and this soul of mine is imbued with the Lord God's praise. Pause.
Sorath Measure. Eulogy 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, is He attained.
Slok 1st Guru.
Ever beautiful is the Sorath measure, if through it the True Lord abides in the bride's mind.
her teeth are without filth and her mind is split not and on her tongue is His True Name.
Both here and here-after she abides in the Lord's fear and serves the True Guru without hesitation.
Foregoing worldly adornments, when she meets her Groom, then makes she merry with her Groom.
With the Name in her mind she ever remains decorated and never has she even an iota of filth.
Her husband's younger and elder brother's(vices) have miserably perished. Who fears the mother-in-law (mammon) now?
If she becomes pleasing to her spouse, she is embellished with jewel-like destiny and abiding Truth, O Nanak.
4th Guru.
Then alone is the Sorath measure beauteous, when, through it, the bride seeks the Lord's Name.
Pleases she, her Guru-God and, through the Guru's instruction, utters she, the Lord's Name.
Day and night she remains attracted by God's love and her body cloak is imbued with the Lord's God's affection.
God like Lord, if found not; I have seen and searched the whole world through.
The great True Guru has implanted the Name in me and my soul wabbles not anywhere else.
Serf Nanak is the servant of God and the slave is the servant of God and the slave of the slaves of the Great True Guru.
Pauri.
Thou Thyself, O Lord, art the Designer and the Creator of the world.
Thou Thyself hast arranged the play and Thou Thyself has attuned it.
Thyself Thou art the Beneficent Creator and Thyself, the Enjoyer.
Thy writ runs everywhere, O my Creator.
By Guru's grace, I ever praise the Lord and unto the Guru, I am a sacrifice.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Aflame in ego, the mortal is burnt on death and, straying in duality, he, at last comes to the Guru.
The Perfect True Guru saves him, by debiting his debt to his own account.
Through the sublime hymns of the Guru, this world is seen aflame.
Thy, who are tinctured with Gurbani, are pacified, O Nanak, and practise ever the truth.
3rd Guru.
Fruitful is the service of the True Guru and blessed and acceptable become the life of his servant.
Sagacious are the persons, who forget not the True Guru both in life and death.
Those persons save their progeny and are approved by the Lord.
The Guru-wards are approved in life as in death and the way-ward continue coming and going.
Nanak, they are not said to have died, who are absorbed in the Guru's hymns.
Pauri.
Serve thou thy mighty immaculate Lord and meditate thou on the Lord's Name.
Associating with the saints congregation, merge thou, in the Master's Name.
O Lord, grand is Thy service Engage me, the foolish one, in it.
I am a slave and servant of Thine. Command me, as it pleaseth Thee.
By Guru's grace, I shall serve Thee, as the Guru instructs me.
Slok 3rd Guru.
According to the past writ, which the Creator Himself wrote, must man act.
The worldly love has thrown its net of deception over him and he has forgotten the Treasure of virtue.
Deem him not alive in this world, He is dead through love of duality.
They, who meditate not on the Name, by Guru's grace, are not permitted to sit near the Lord.
They suffer extremely excessive misery and none of their sons and wives goes with them.
Their face is blackened among men and they heave in heavy breath.
In the egocentrics, no one places reliance. Trust in them is lost.
Nanak, the Guru-wards, within whose mind abides the Name, enjoy great peace.
3rd Guru.
They are the relatives and they, the friends, who are resigned to Guru's will and meet me with love.
Night and day, they act according to True Guru's will and they remain absorbed in the True Name.
They, who practise ego and evil and are attached to another in love, and not called friends.
The way-wards are selfish, they cannot adjust other's affairs.
Nanak, they act in accordance with what is pre-destined for them; none can erase it.
Pauri.
Having created the world Thyself, Thou Thyself has arranged the play.
Thou Thyself hast created the three modes, and increased man's love for riches.
Man is called to account for the deeds done in pride and then he continues coming and going.
They, whom God Himself blesses with His grace, them, the Guru instructs.
I am dedicated unto my Guru and am ever, ever, a sacrifice unto him.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Bewitching is the love of wealth, which without teeth, has eaten up the world.
The apostates are eaten away, but the Guru-wards, who fix their mind on the True Name, are saved.
Without the Name, the world wanders about madly. Through the Guru I have seen this.
Doing worldly affairs, the man wastes his life in vain and enshrines not the Bliss giving Lord in the mind.
Nanak, they alone obtain the Name in whose destiny it is so writ by the Lord, from the beginning.
3rd Guru.
The mind is brimful with Nectar, but the perverse know not its relish.
Just as the deer knows not its own musk and wanders about guided by doubt.
So an apostate abandons ambrosia and amasses poison. The Creator Himself has infatuated him.
A few pious persons obtain understanding and, within them, they see the Supreme Lord.
Their body and mind are pacified and their tongue enjoys the God's relish.
By Guru's instruction, the Name wells up in the mind and by Guru's instruction, the mortal is united in the Lord's union.
Without the Name, the entire world is insane and loses its life in vain.
Nanak, the Name alone is the Nectar and, through the Guru, is it obtained.
Pauri.
He, the God Lord is beyond reach. Tell me, how can one attain to Him?
He has neither form nor sign and is invisible. Tell me then, O saints, how is He to be remembered?
He is the Formless, mammon-free and Unapproachable Lord, What excellences of His should one narrate and sing?
Whom the Lord Himself, of Himself, instructs, He alone treads on God's path.
The Perfect Guru has shown the Lord to me and, through Guru's service, is He obtained.
Slok 3rd Guru.
As if my body has been crushed in an oil-press without yielding even a drop of blood.
And my soul, I quarter for the sake of the love of my True Lord,
Thus shall my union with the Lord cease not night and day O Nanak.
3rd Guru.
My friend is joyful and imparts His affection and enamours my soul.
as by applying a base, the clothes are dyed with madder.
Nanak, this color depart not and any other colour cannot be given to my soul.
Pauri.
The Lord by Himself pervades all, and God Himself makes man utter His Name.
Himself creating the creating, the Lord engages every one in the task.
Some He engage in His devotional service and some He Himself strays.
Some He puts on the right path and some He goads into wilderness.
Through the Guru, slave Nanak meditates on the Name and sings God's praise.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Fruitful is the True Guru's service, if any one performs it by engaging his mind in it.
Heart-desired boons are attained and ego departs from within.
Such a person breaks his bonds, is emancipated and remains absorbed in the True Lord.
The Name in this world in difficult to obtain but through the Guru, it comes to abide in man's mind.
Nanak, he who serves his Guru, unto him, I am a sacrifice.
3rd Guru.
The mind of an apostate is adamant and is attached to another.
He obtains not peace even in dream and passes his life in extreme misery.
The Pandits grow weary of reading and reciting from door to door and the adepts of going into trance.
The mortals are tired of performing religious rites, but their mind comes not under control.
The pseudo-saints grow weary of wearing false dresses and bathing at sixty-eight shrines.
They know not the state of their mind and are misled by pride and doubt.
By Guru's grace God's fear is obtained and by great good fortune God comes and abides in the mind.
When the Lord's fear is obtained, the mind is restrained and, through the Name, ego is burnt down.
Pure are they, who are imbued with the True Name and their light merges in the supreme light.
Meeting the True Guru, the mortal obtains the Name and is absorbed in bliss.
Pauri.
These revelments of the monarchs and Kings look pleasing for four days.
These enjoyment of wealth are like the colour of safflower, which wears off in a moment.
The wealth goes not with the man, when he departs. He carries the load of sins on his head.
When death seizes and drives him, on, then extremely dreadful he looks.
That time, when he could meditate on God, returns not to man's hand again and he ultimately regrets.
Slok 3rd Guru.
They, who turn their face away from the True Guru, suffer sorrow tied down.
Over and over they come and go and cannot meet with their Lord.
Their disease of doubt departs not and, in pain, they obtain more pain.
Nanak, If the Merciful Master forgives the man, then He unites him in the Name's union.
3rd Guru.
They, who turn their back upon the True Guru, find no place or room of refuge.
They wander from door to door like a divorced woman of bad character and evil repute.
Nanak, the pious persons, who are granted pardon, they associate with the True Guru's society.
Pauri.
They, who server the True Lord, the slayer of Mur demon, swim, across the terrible ocean.
They, who repeat the Lord God's Name, them, the death's courier passes by.
They, who meditate one God, go to His Court wearing the robe of honour.
Those persons alone serve Thee, O God, on whom is Thine grace.
My Beloved, I ever sing, Thy praise. Through the Guru, my doubt and dread are dispelled.
Slok 3rd Guru.
In the slaver three things (truth, contentment and reflection) are put and this is the sublime ambrosial food of the Lord.
By eating which the soul is satiated and door of salvation is attained.
This fare is rarely obtained, O saints; it is obtained by reflecting over Guru's hymns.
Why should we drive out from our mind this riddle of the Lord's Name? We should, ever clasp it to our heart.
The Satguru has set this problem Its solution the Sikhs of the Guru have found after a search.
Nanak, he whom Guru instruction. understands this riddle. Through arduous service the holy obtain God.
3rd Guru.
They whom the Primal Lord unites, remain united with Him. They fix their mind on the True Guru.
They, whom the Lord Himself separates remain separated from Him, and they are ruined through another's love.
Nanak, what can be obtained without God's grace? The mortal earns, what is pre-destined for him.
Pauri.
Sitting together, the singing mates chant the Lord's praise.
They ever praise the God's Name and are a sacrifice unto God.
They, who hear and believe in the Lord's Name, unto them, I am a sacrifice.
O God, make me meet with the pious mates, who are competent to unite me with Thee.
Day and night I am dedicated unto those, who behold their Guru.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Without the Name, all, ever wander about in the universe and they suffer loss in the world.
The way-ward person do the deeds in the pitch darkness of egotism.
The Guru-wards drink Nectar, by reflecting over the Name O Nanak.
3rd Guru.
The Pious person wakes in peace and in peace he sleep.
Night and day he praises his Lord.
Engrossed in doubt, the self willed wanders about.
Within him is anxiety and he sleeps not a peaceful sleep.
The theologians wake and sleep in peace.
Nanak is a sacrifice unto those, who are imbued with God.
Pauri.
They alone remember the God's Name, who are imbued with God.
They meditate on One God. The One Lord alone is true.
God alone is pervading all. From the One Lord alone is all the creation.
They, who ponder over the Lord's Name, cast away fear altogether.
The Lord Himself blesses man with the Guru's instruction and, through the Guru, meditates he, on the Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Divine knowledge, from which substantial understanding is obtained, enters not man's mind.
Without perception, how can he sing God's praise? A blind man ever does blind things.
Nanak, when the mortal realises the Lord, the Name comes to abide in his mind.
3rd Guru.
There is but one Divine sermon, uttered by the only Guru; there is One Name to reflect upon.
True is the merchandise, true the shop and true the garners filled with jewels.
If the Beneficent Lord bestows, then alone are they obtained by the Guru's grace.
Dealing in this true merchandise, the man ever earns the profit of the unique Name.
In this very world of poison, the Name-Nectar becomes manifest and by the Lord's grace alone is it quaffed.
Nanak, praise thou the True Lord, Blessed is, He, the Embellisher of the mortals.
Pauri.
They, within whom is pervading falsehood, love not the truth.
If some one tells the truth, the false one is burnt.
As the crow eats up ordure, so is the false one satiated with falsehood.
He, to whom the Lord become merciful, meditates on the Name.
Through the Guru, remember thou the Lord's Name, and thou shalt be rid of falsehood and sin.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Thou, O Sheikh, who art wandering in four directions, and art flown by four winds, bring this mind of thine into the Lord's One Mansion.
Abandon thou thine crooked ways and realise the Guru's instruction.
Prostrate thyself before the True Guru. He, the Omniscient Satguru knows everything.
Burn thou thine hopes and desires and remain as a guest in this world.
Even now, if thou walkest according to the True Guru's will, then, shalt thou obtain honour in the Lord's court.
Nanak, they, who contemplate not on the Name, accursed is their dress and accursed their food.
3rd Guru.
Infinite are God's merits. His worth cannot be described.
Nanak, the Guru-wards utter the Lord's praise and in the Lord's praise they remain absorbed.
Pauri.
God has adorned the body jacket. Embroidering it with the Lord's meditation, wear it I.
The silk of the Lord's Name is set thereon in plenty, in multiple manners and in various ways.
Rare is the man of understanding who understands this mystery by deeply deliberating in his mind.
He alone understands this deliberation whom the Lord Himself causes to understand.
Says poor slave Nanak, the Guru-wards deem God to be the ever True Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Great men utter instruction apropos some spiritual motive, but the whole world becomes a partner therein.
He, who turns Guru-ward imbibes Lord's fear and recognises his ownself.
If by Guru's grace, man remains dead in life, then his mind becomes content from the mind itself.
Nanak, how can they, who have no faith in their mind, expound divine knowledge?
3rd Guru.
They, who fix not their mind on God, through the Guru, are overtaken by grief in the end.
From within and without, they are blind and attain not any understanding.
O Pandit, the whole world is fed for the sake of those, who are imbued with the God's Name.
They, who praise the Lord, by Guru's instruction, remain blended with the Lord.
O Pandit, through duality, satisfaction is not possible, nor is the Lord's wealth obtained.
Through grown weary of reading, men obtain not contentment and pass their life burning night and day.
Their cries and complaints end not, nor departs the doubt from within them.
Nanak, without the name, they arise and depart with blackened face.
Pauri.
My Beloved, make me meet the Guru, the friend of God. Meeting with him I shall inquire from him the way to Thee.
The friend, who shows me the God's path, unto him I am a sacrifice.
With him, I shall share his virtues and contemplate over the Lord's Name.
Ever serve I, my dear God and by serving God, I obtain peace.
I am devoted unto the True Guru, who has infused understanding within me.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Even though thou readest the Vedas for four ages, thou shalt not be freed of the filth, O Pandit.
The three modes are the roots of worldly attachments. In ego, the mortal forgets the Name.
The Pandits are deluded, being attached to another and they deal in worldly goods.
Within them are desires and cravings and they, the ignorant fools, are starved to death.
By serving the True Guru and remembering the True Name, I have obtained peace.
By enshrining affection for the True Name, desires and cravings have departed from within me.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the name and who keep the Lord clasped to their heart are automatically satiated.
3rd Guru.
The way-ward person serves not God's Name, so immense anguish overtakes him.
Within him is the darkness of spiritual ignorance and he acquires not understanding.
Through his mind's obstinacy he sows not the seed of the Lord's Name, When hungry, what shall he eat hereafter.
He has forgotten the name treasures, being attached with another.
Nanak, the Guru-wards obtain honour, when the Lord Himself unites them in His union.
Pauri.
Very beauteous is the tongue which sings the Lord God's praise.
The woman, who with her mind, body and mouth utters God's Name, she is pleasing to the Lord.
She, who, by Guru's grace, tastes Lord's relish, is satiated.
Reforming herself, she chants the virtues of the virtuous Lord and ever sings the praise of her Beloved.
She, unto whom the Lord Himself becomes merciful, utters the hymns of the great True Guru.
Slok 3rd Guru.
As the elephant offers his head to the goad and as the anvil offers itself to the hammer.
So place, thou, thy soul and body, before the Guru and ever stand and serve him.
In this way, having effaced his ego, the Guru-ward assumes the sovereignty of the whole world.
Nanak, when the Lord casts His gracious glance, then alone, man understands this, through the Guru.
3rd Guru.
They, who, through the Guru, meditate on the Name, their advent into the world becomes acceptable.
Nanak, they save their progeny and obtain honour in the Lord's court.
Pauri.
The pious Sikh mates, the Guru unites with the Lord.
Some servants the Guru keeps in his presence and some others the Guru engages in his service.
They, who cherish the beloved Guru in their mind and heart, then, the Guru blesses with the Lord's love.
The Guru equally loves all the Gur-sikhs, like his friends, sons and brothers.
Utter ye all, the great True Guru's Name. By uttering the great Guru's Name, the man is reanimated.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Nanak, the unwise, blind ones, contemplate not on the Name, and engage themselves in other deeds.
Bound at the death's courier's door they are punished and ultimately they rot in ordure.
3rd Guru.
Nanak, true and approved are the persons, who serve their True Guru.
In the God's Name, they remain absorbed and their comings and goings cease.
Pauri.
The amassing of wealth, property and riches becomes distressful in the end.
The bedecked home, mansions and palaces, none of them goes with the man.
The mortal ever nurses steeds of various colours, but they are of no avail whatsoever.
O man, attach thou thy mind with God's Name and in the end it shall be thy succour.
By Guru's grace, slave Nanak has remembered the Name and he is blessed with peace.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Without God's grace, the name is not obtained, it can be obtained only through perfect destiny.
Nanak, if the Lord casts His gracious glance then, by Guru's instruction, the mortal unites in His union.
1st Guru.
Some are cremated some buried and some the dogs eat.
Some are thrown into water and some, again, are cast into tower of silence.
Nanak, this much is not known as to where do they go and disappear?
Pauri.
Pure are all the food, dress and wealth of those, who are imbued with the God's Name.
Sacred are all the homes, mansions, seraglios and caravansarys of those, wherein the pious persons, God's slaves, Guru's Sikhs, and the world-renouncers go and take rest.
Sacred are all the houses, saddles and horse-cloths of those, mounting whereon the Guru-wards, the sikhs of the Guru, the true persons and the saints go their way.
Pure are all the rites, faiths and deeds of those, who utter Lord God, and the Name of the True Lord God.
The pious Gur-sikhs who have piety in their treasure, they alone repair to the Guru.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Nanak, forsaking the Name, man loses all, this world and the world beyond.
His worship, penance and self discipline are all wasted and he is beguiled by another's love.
Bound at the death-courier's door he is beaten and is awarded great punishment.
3rd Guru.
The slanderers bear enmity to the saints and cultivate love and affection with the sinners.
Here and hereafter, they attain not peace and come and go again and again.
Their desire is never stilled and they are ruined by duality.
The faces of those slanderers are blackened in that true court of the Lord.
Nanak, without the Name, the mortals finds refuge neither at this shore nor at the yonder one.
Pauri.
They, who meditate on the Lord's name, in their mind, they are imbued with the Lord's God's Name.
Whosoever in their heart and mind, dwell on the One Lord, without the One Lord, they recognise not another.
Those persons alone serve the Lord, on whose forehead such a writ is written by the Lord.
They chant ever the God's glories, and, singing the praise of the meritorious Lord, instruct their mind.
Great is the greatness of the pious persons who, through the Perfect Guru, remain absorbed in the Lord's Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Hard is the service of the True Guru, as the devotee has to surrender his head and efface his ownself.
If he dies by Guru's instruction, he dies not again and then his entire service becomes acceptable.
Touching the philosopher's stone, he is transformed into philosopher's stone and remains attached in love with the True Lord.
He, who is so pre-destined, him, the Lord-incarnate, True Guru, comes to meet.
Nanak, by reckoning the slave meets not with his Lord. He, whom the Lord forgives, becomes acceptable.
3rd Guru.
Strayed by their self-interest, the fools distinguish not good from bad.
If they contemplate on the Name, then obtain they, the Lord's presence and their light merges into the Supreme light.
When the True Lord's fear is ever enshrined in their mind, it is then that they attain all the understanding.
The True Guru abides in their very home, and he himself blends them with their Lord.
Nanak, he, to whom the Lord shows His mercy and benevolence, meets with the True Guru and all, his desires are fulfilled.
Pauri.
Blest! blest is the destiny of those saintly persons, who, with their mouth, utter God. and the God's Name.
Blessed! blessed is the destiny of the holy men, who, with their ears, hear God's praise.
Blessed! blessed! is the destiny of the good people, who, by singing God's praise, become virtuous persons.
Auspicious! auspicious is the fortune of the pious persons, who, acting on Guru's instruction, conquer their mind.
The highest of all is the fortune of the Sikhs of the Guru. True Guru sikh fall at the Guru's feet.
Slok 3rd Guru.
He, who knows the Lord and fixes his attention on the one Name, keeps intact his Brahman-hood.
The nine treasures and eighteen miraculous powers go after him, who ever keeps enshrined the Lord within his mind.
Without the True Guru, the Name is obtained not; understand and reflect thou over it.
Nanak, through perfect destiny, man meets the True Guru and gathers peace, the four ages through.
3rd Guru.
Whether young or whether old, the thirst and hunger of the way-ward person depart not.
The Guru-wards are imbued with the name and are pacified, losing their self-conceit.
Their mind is sated and satiated and they feel not hungry again.
Nanak, whatever the Guru-wards, who remain absorbed in the Name's love, do, that, becomes acceptable.
Pauri.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who are the God-conscious sikhs of the Guru.
I see the sight of those, who meditate on the Lord's Name.
Hearing Lord's praise, I utter His virtues and inscribe God's glory in my mind.
I praise the Lord's Name with love and up-root all my sins.
Blest, blest and beauteous is the body and place, whereon my Guru plant his foot.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Without the Guru, gnosis is not obtained, nor peace comes and abides in the mind.
Nanak, without the Name, the self-willed shall depart after wasting their life.
3rd Guru.
All the adepts and strivers seek to attain the name and grow weary of fixing their attention.
Without the True Guru, none attains the Name it is only through the Guru, that the Name is received.
Without the Name in vain are all the robes and dishes and accursed is the saintliness and accursed the supernatural-power.
That alone is the saintliness and that the occult-power, which the carefree Lord gives as His gift.
Nanak, through the Guru, the Lord's Name abides in the mind. This alone is the miraculous might and this the extra psychic power.
Pauri.
I am a minstrel of God, my Lord Master, and I daily sing the songs of God's praise.
I sing God's praise and hear the excellences of that God, the Lord of wealth.
The Lord alone is the Donor and the whole world is a mumper. The mortals and other beings are His beggars.
My God, Thou mercifully givest gifts even to the worms and insects in the stones.
Deliberating over the Name, through the Guru, slave Nanak has become wealthy.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Reading and reflecting are worldly affairs, if there are avarice and sin within.
Reading through egotism, all are grown weary and are ruined by the love of another.
He alone is literate and he alone a wise Pandit, who ponders over Guru's hymns.
He searches his mind, finds the quintessence and obtains the door of salvation.
He attains the Lord, the Treasure of virtues and tranquilly meditates on Him.
Blessed is the trader, O Nanak, who, through the Guru, obtains the Lord's Name as his support.
3rd Guru.
Without subduing his mind no man attains success. Let any one see it through deep deliberation.
The Pseudo-saints grow weary of roaming at the holy places, but this mind is subdued not.
Through the Guru, this mind is overcome in man's life and he remains absorbed in the True Lord's love.
Nanak, in this way, the filth of the mind is removed, the Name burns off the ego.
Pauri.
Meet me, O Lord God's saints, my brothers, and implant in me even a particle of the Lord's Name.
O God's slaves, bedeck me with the decoration of God's Name and make me wear the Divine dress of forgiveness.
Such a decoration is pleasing to my Lord. The embellishment of love is dear to God.
The Lord Master's Name, I utter day and night and, in an instant, It effaces all the sins.
He, unto whom the Lord God becomes merciful, wins his life game, through the Guru, by meditating on the Lord's Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The scum of so many births is attached to this soul and it has become pitch black.
The oilman's rag turns not white by washing, even through it be washed a hundred times.
By Guru's grace, remains dead in life and his nature is altered and turned and away from the world.
Nanak, no impurity attaches to him then and he falls not into the womb again.
3rd Guru.
Of the four time-periods, 'Kali-age' is called the darkest, but the sublime status is attained in this very age.
One, who is so ordained by God, he, by Guru's grace, obtains the fruit of the Lord's praises in this age.
Nanak, by Guru's grace, night and day, he utters the Lord's praise and remains absorbed in the Lord's worship.
Pauri.
O Lord God, unite me with the society of the pious persons, so that, with my mouth, I may utter the Lord's God's sublime word.
I ever sing God's praise and utter God's Name and, by Guru's instruction, ever do I enjoy the Lord's love.
By taking the cure all of the Lord's continuous meditation I am rid of all the diseases and multitudes of pains.
Even while breathing and eating they, who forget not the Lord, deems them, to be the perfectly true slaves of God.
They, who, through the Guru, meditate on the Lord, their subservience of the death's courier and the world, comes to an end.
Slok 3rd Guru.
O man, oppressed by a night mare, they life has passed away is sleep.
Thou awakenest not on hearing the True Guru's instruction and in thy mind enthusiasm arises not.
May the body which has no virtue and performs not the Guru's service, be burnt.
I have seen the world burning with pride and the love of another.
Nanak, they, who seek the Guru's protection and meditate on the True Name in their mind, are saved.
3rd Guru.
Imbued with the Name, the bride is rid of egotism and becomes illustrious.
If she ever walks in her spouse's will, then alone, befit her, the decorations.
Beauteous becomes, the bride's couch, she obtains God as her Groom and she ever enjoys Him her spouse.
God dies not, nor does she ever suffer affliction, and for aye, she remains the happy bride.
Nanak, the Lord God unites her with Himself, for she enshrine love and affection for the Guru.
Pauri.
Evil are the persons, who conceal their religious preceptor.
O dear, Lord, let me not see their sight, for they are the great sinners and murderers.
Like a wicked woman, they go from house to house with an impure mind.
By the greatest good fortune they meet the saints society and are regenerated, through the Guru.
O Lord, bless me with Thy mercy and unite me with the True Guru, so that I may be a sacrifice unto the Guru.
Slok 3rd Guru.
From the Guru's service wells up peace and then one is not afflicted with pain.
His comings and goings come to an end and death then has no power to obliterate him.
His soul abides with the Lord and ultimately it remains merged in the True Being.
Nana, I am a sacrifice unto those who walk in the True Guru's will.
3rd Guru.
Without the Name, the bride becomes not pure, even through she may make many decorations.
She knows not the worth of her spouse and is attached to another's love.
Nanak, she is impure, she is of ill-conduct and, amongst women, an evil woman.
Pauri.
Bless me with Thine mercy, O Lord Master so that I may recite only the Divine word.
And to remember God's Name, utter only God and obtain God as my profit.
They, who, day and night, utter God's Name, unto them I am a sacrifice.
They, who contemplate on my beloved True Guru, those persons, l may I see with mine eyes.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru, who has united me with God, my Friend and kindred.
Slok 4th Guru.
God bears love to his servants and of His servants God is the Friend.
God is in the power of His attendants, as the musical instrument is in the power of player.
God's slaves meditate on God and bear love to their Beloved.
Mercifully hear me, O Lord and let the rain of Thine mercy fall the whole world over.
Whatever the praise of the Lord's slave is, that is, in fact, the Lord's praise.
God loves His own praise and hence causes His slave to be acclaimed.
That slave of God meditates on the Name; God and the God's slave are altogether alike.
Serf Nanak is the servant of God. O Fortunate Lord God, uphold thou his honour.
4th Guru.
Nanak bears love to the True Lord, and without Him he can survive not.
When the True Guru is the met with, then is the Perfect Guru obtained and the tongue enjoys the Lord's elixir.
Pauri.
Night, day and morn, I sing Thine praise, O Lord.
All the men and other creatures remember but Thy Name.
Thou alone art the Giver and Do-nor, and we eat what Thou givest us.
In the society of the pious persons, all the sins are eradicated.
Slave Nanak, is ever a sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice unto Thee, O Lord.
Slok 4th Guru.
He, within whom is spiritual ignorance and who puts not faith in the True Guru, his understanding is rendered dim.
He, within whom is deceit, deems all deceitful and through this deception, he is utterly ruined.
The True Guru's will enters not his mind and he wanders about for his own interests.
If the Lord bestows His mercy, then is Nanak absorbed in His Name.
4th Guru.
The way-ward are engrossed in the love of wealth, because of another's love their mind becomes not steady.
Day and night, they ever continue burning and by egotism they are utterly ruined.
In their mind is the pitch darkness of avarice and none draws near them.
They themselves are miserable and obtain not peace ever. They die and continue coming and going.
Nanak, the True Lord forgives, those, who attach their mind to Guru's feet.
Pauri.
That saint and devotee becomes acceptable to the Lord whom He loves.
Wise are the persons, who meditate on their Lord.
They partake of the food of the Nectar-Name the treasure of all the virtues
The dust of the pious persons feet, they, apply to their forehead.
Nanak, bathing at the Lord's shrine, they are rendered immaculate.
Slok 4th Guru.
In the mind of the Guru-ward prevails peace and his soul and body are absorbed in the Lord's Name.
He contemplates on the Name, peruses the name and with the Name, he remains attached in love.
He obtains the treasure of the Name and his anxiety is all dispelled.
Meeting with the True Guru, the Name wells up and his thirst and hunger are all removed.
Nanak, imbued with Name, he gathers only the Name in his skirt.
4th Guru.
He, who is cursed by the Omnipotent True Guru, leaves his home and ever wanders about.
He is followed by hooting and his face is blackened in the world-beyond.
Incoherent words issue forth from his mouth and he dies spluttering forth spume.
What can be done by any body's doing, when he is so destined by God for his past deeds?
wherever he goes, there he is proved a liar and his telling of falsehood pleases none.
O brethren and saints, see this greatness of God, our Lord, As an one does, so receives he.
This shall be the Lord's consideration in His true court Slave Nanak fore-tells and proclaims this.
Pauri.
The True Guru has established the village and he, the Guru, has appointed the guards as well.
My hope is fulfilled and my mind is imbued with the love of the Guru's feet.
Infinitely merciful is my Guru, who has effaced all my sins.
Showering his benediction, the Guru has made me his own.
Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto the Guru, who is possessed of so many merits.
Slok 1st Guru.
Under His command, we receive what is destined for us. What can we do now, O Pandit?
When the Lord's command is received, then is decided everything, and men move and act accordingly.
2nd Guru.
The nose-string is in the Master's hands and man's own acts drive him on.
Wheresoever is man's feed, thither he goes to eat it. O Nanak, this alone is the only truth.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself puts everything in its proper place.
Himself creating the creation, the Lord Himself destroys it.
Fashioning the creatures Himself, He Himself nourishes them.
His attendants He hugs to His bosom and makes them happy with his gracious glance.
Nanak, His saints are ever in bliss and the love of another, they consign to fire.
Slok 3rd Guru.
O my soul, lovingly remember Thou, the Beloved Lord single-mindedly and with rapt attention.
Imperishable and everlasting are the God's glories and He regrets not what He gives.
I am ever a sacrifice unto God, serving whom peace is attained.
Nanak, burning his ego with the Name, the Guru-ward remains merged in the Lord.
3rd Guru.
The Lord Himself engages men in His service and Himself rewards them.
He Himself is the father and mother of all and Himself, He, takes care of them.
Nanak, they who ponder over the Name, dwell in their own home and are honoured all the ages through.
Pauri.
Thou, O Creator art Omnipotent to do all the deeds and without Thee, I lean on none else.
Thou Thyself created the world and Thyself shalt, ultimately destroy it.
They command alone prevails everywhere and whatever Thou does, that alone comes to pass.
Through the Guru, the Lord blesses man with glory and then obtains he, the Lord.
By Guru's grace, Nanak meditates on the Lord, Let all repeat "Blessed, Blessed is he, the Guru".
The hymns of saint Sire Kabir. Rag Sorath. Ghar 1.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
The Hindus die worshipping the idols and the Muslims die bowing their heads.
The former burn the dead and the latter bury them Neither of the two finds Thy real state, O Lord.
O my soul, the world is a blind deep pit.
On all the four sides the death's net is thrown. Pause.
The poets die repeatedly reciting poems and the ascetics in tatters, repairing to Kidar Nath.
The mystics die raising and wearing the matted hair, but these know not thy state, O Lord.
The Kings die hoarding and amassing wealth and burying heavy messes of gold.
The Pandits die reading and reciting the Vedas and the women by seeing and beholding their beauty.
Without the Lord's Name, all are ruined, see and ascertain this, O man.
Without the Name of God, who has ever obtained salvation? Utters Kabir this instruction.
When the body is burnt, it becomes ashes then, if it remains, an army of worms eats it up.
An unbaked earthen pitcher breaks, when water of put into it; Such is the worth of this body.
Why O brother, goest about thou, puffed up and in pride?
How hast thou forgotten the days, when thou didst remain hanging with thy face downward, for ten months? Pause.
As the bee collects honey, so does the fool amass and gather wealth with zest.
At the time of death, all yell "Take him, take him away, Why allow a ghost to remain?"
His wedded wife accompanies him to the thresh hold and on-wards his good friends.
All the people and kindred go as far as the cremation ground and thereafter the swan-soul departs all alone.
Says Kabir, hear, O mortal thou art seized by death and hast fallen into the blind well.
Thou hast entangled thyself with the false wealth, like the parrot misled into the reed-trap.
Hearing all the teachings of the Vedas and the Puranas, I too desired to perform religious rites.
But seeing all the wise men seized by death, I arose and came away from the Pandits, rid of this desire.
O my soul, thy only task thou hast not accomplished.
Thou hast not contemplated on Lord, the King. Pause.
Going to the forest regions, the men practise yoga and penance and live on the picked up fruits and roots.
The pipers, the reciters of the Vedas, the men of one word, the silence lovers are all enrolled in death's register.
Narad like loving service, enters not into man's mind and pampering and adorning his body, the man gives it to death.
He sits as an hypocrite professing Lord's love and affection; but what can he obtain from God?
Death has fallen on the whole world. The sceptical theologians are also recorded in its register.
Says Kabir, the persons, who imbibe God's love and devotion, become pure.
Second House.
I look around with my both eyes, the both eyes,
but I see no one else but God.
My eyes lovingly gaze on Him.
Now, no other subject can be mentioned.
My doubt has been removed and my fear has fled away,
now, when my mind is attached with the Lord's Name. Pause.
When the magician beats his tembourine,
the whole public turn up to see the play.
When the magician winds up his play,
then all alone he enjoys his revelments.
By uttering sermons, the doubt is dispelled not.
Through telling and describing, the whole public has grown weary.
He, to whom the Lord reveals Himself, through the Guru,
in his mind, He remains permeated.
When the Guru shows even a little kindness,
then the body, soul and person are all absorbed in God.
Says Kabir, I am imbued with the Lord's love,
and I have met with the Beneficent God, the life of the world.
He, in whose home the sacred books are the milk products,
and mind-ocean is the vessel to churn,
be thou the milk-churner of that Lord.
Why shall the Lord refuge thee butter milk then.
O hand-maiden, why makest thou not God thy Spouse?
He is the Life of the world and the support of the soul. Pause.
On thy neck is the collar and on thy feet the fetters.
The Omnipresent Lord has sent thee wandering from house to house.
Even now, thou rememberest not the Lord, O maid,
Thou, O wretched maid, art spied by death.
The Lord is the Doer and the Prompter
What lies in the hand of the poor hand-maiden?
She, yea she alone wakes whom the Lord awakens.
To whatever the Lord attaches her. to that she is attached.
O maid, where from hast thou attained that wisdom?
Wherewith, thou hast erased the line of doubt?
That elixir, has Kabir quaffed,
And his soul is reconciled to the Lord, by Guru's grace.
When God, without whom, man can life not,
is attained, then is his service fulfilled.
Men call it a good thing to live for ever.
But without dying unto oneself true life is not there.
Now, what sort of gnosis should I expound?
As I look on, the worldly things are passing away. Pause.
Saffron is grounded and mixed with sandal,
and without the eyes the world is seen.
The son has given birth to the father,
Without a site, the city is established.
A beggar has found the Giver,
He has given me so much, that I cannot eat it.
I cannot forsake eating it and yet is exhausts not.
My going to others for begging has ended.
He, who knows how to die (unto self) in life,
that elite, enjoys mountain of bliss.
Kabir has obtained that wealth,
and, meeting with God, has effaced his self conceit.
What avails it to read, what to reflect,
and what to hear the Vedas and Puranas?
What avails reading and listing,
If divine knowledge is not gained therewith.
The ignorant man utters not the Lord's Name.
Then, what is it that he deliberates upon over and over again. Pause.
In darkness, a lamp is required to find,
the one incomprehensible thing.
I have found the incomprehensible thing,
as within my mind the lamp go gnosis is aflame.
Says Kabir, now I know the Lord;
when I know Him, then is my mind pleased.
My mind is pleased, but people believe it not;
If they believe not what can I then do?
In thy mind is deception and in thy mouth, the divine gospel.
O false man, why churnest thou water?
Of what avail is it to wash the body,
when there is filth in the mind? Pause.
The gourd may bathe at the sixty-eight shrines,
even then its bitterness it not removed.
Says Kabir after careful deliberation,
cause me to cross the terrible world ocean, O Lord, the Enemy of ego.
Sorath.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, is He attained.
Practising great deceit, the man acquires other's wealth.
Coming home, he squanders it on his sons and wife.
O my mind, practise not guile even by mistake,
in the end, it is thy own soul that shall have to render an account. Pause.
Every moment the body is wearing off and the old age is having the upper hand.
Then no one shall pour water into the cup of thy hands.
Says Kabir, no one belongs to thee.
Why thou utterest not the Lord's Name in thy mind betimes?
O saints, my wind like mind has now acquired rest.
I reckon that I have learnt the science of union with God. to some extent. Pause.
The Guru has shown me the hole,
through which the deer stealthily enters.
I have closed the doors.
The celestial music rings within me.
The pitcher of my heart-lotus is filled with the water of vice.
I have spilled the water and turned it upright.
Says Kabir, I, the Lord's slave, have known this.
Now when I have knows this, then is my mind propitiated.
Sorath Measure.
I, a hungry man, can perform Thy service not.
Take back this rosary of Thine, O Lord.
I ask for the dust of saints feet;
I owe not any one, anything.
O Lord of wealth, how can I pull on with Thee?
If Thou givest me not Thyself, then shall I acquire is by begging of thee. Pause.
I ask for two seers of flour,
with a quarter seer of clarified butter and slat.
I beg for half a seer of pulse,
which shall feet me two times a day.
I ask for a cot, with four legs as also,
a pillow and a mattress.
I beg for a quilt to cover me.
Then, Thy slave shall perform thy devotional service with love.
I have harboured no avarice.
Thy Name alone becomes me.
Says Kabir, my mind is Thus pleased;
when my soul is pleased, then recognize, I, I the Lord.
Sorath Measure. Hymns of Sire Saint Namdev ji.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
When I see my Lord, then sing I His praise.
It is then, that I, His slave, obtain forbearance.
Meeting with the Bright True Guru. I have merged in the world-incarnate Lord. Pause.
Where the dazzling light is seen,
there plays the celestial strain.
The Light of the Luminous Lord is pervading there.
By Guru's grace I have known it.
In the heat-lotus chamber are the jewels.
There they glitter like lightning.
The Lord is near, not distant.
He completely permeates my mind.
Where there is the light of the undying sun,
there, the burning lamps of the sum and the moon appear insignificant.
By Guru's grace, I have known this.
Slave Nama is absorbed in his Lord.
Sorath.
A near female neighbour asks Nama: "By whom hast thou got the cottage built?"
I shall pay him twice the wages; thou, did, tell me thy carpenter?
O Sister, the carpenter cannot be given to thee.
Lo, my carpenter is pervading everywhere.
My carpenter is the support of my soul. Pause.
If anyone wants the hut to be make, the carpenter demands the wages of love.
When man breaks with all the people and kindreds, then the carpenter comes of His own accord.
I can describe not such a carpenter who is contained in everything and every place.
A dumb man tastes the flavour of great elixir; if thou ask him, he cannot describe it.
Listen thou the merits of the carpenter, O Sister, He has checked the ocean and installed Dhru.
Name's Lord brought back Sita and bestowed Ceylon on Bhabhikan.
Sorath.
The unskinned drum plays.
Without the rainy season the cloud thunders.
Without the clouds, the rain falls,
if anyone reflects over the Real Things.
I have met my Beloved all pervading Lord,
meeting with whom the body is rendered a sublime body. Pause.
Touching the philosopher's stone, I have become gold.
In my mouth and mind, I have strung the jewels of the Lord's Name.
I love the Lord as my own and my doubt is dispelled.
Instructed by the Guru, my soul is satiated.
As the Water is contained in the pitcher,
likewise, I know, the one Lord is contained in the whole World.
The mind of the disciple reposes faith in the Guru.
Slave Nama understands the Reality.
Sorath Measure. Thy hymns of reverend Saint. Ravi Dass ji.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
When there was egoism in me, thou wert not within me, then; now that Thou art there, there is no egoism.
As huge waves are raised by the wind in the great ocean, but they are, only water in water.
O Lord of wealth, what should I say about this delusion?
What we deem a thing to be, in reality, it is not like that. Pause.
It is like a king falling asleep on his throne and becoming a beggar in dream.
His kingdom is in tact, but separating from it, he suffers pain Such, indeed, has been my condition.
As is the story of the rope and serpent, I have, now, has some secret explained to me.
As I was misled to believes that several bangles were different from gold, but what I then said becomes me not to say, now.
Amidst all, the One Lord has assumed many forms and He, is enjoying (pervading) in all the hearts.
Says Ravi Dass, the Lord is nearer to us than our hands and feet. So let in happen, what may naturally happen.
If I am bound with the noose of worldly attachment, Thee, too, O Lord, I have bound with the bond of love.
Make Thou effort O Lord to secure Thine release, because I have secured my release by remembering Thee.
O Lord of wealth, as is my love for Thee, that thou knowest.
Such being my love for Thee, what shalt Thou do now with me? Pause.
Man catches a fish, slices it, cuts it and cooks it in many ways.
It is eaten up, but by bit but still, it forgets not water.
God, the King, fathers no one but him who loves him.
The screen of worldly love is cast over the whole world, but it troubles not the saint.
Says Ravi Dass, my devotion to one Lord has increased; to whom should I tell this now?
Shall I still suffer the pain, for the removed of which I meditate on thee, O my Master?
This precious human life, I have obtained as a reward of good actions, but without discriminating wisdom it is going in vain.
Say, of what account are the mansion throne like those of king Indra without the Lord's devotional service?
Thou hast not thought of the relish of the King Lord's Name,
a relish, in which all other relishes are forgotten. Pause.
We have become mad, we know not what we ought to know, and consider not what we out to consider. Like this our days are passing away.
Our evil passion are strong, discriminating sense is weak and to the supreme object, we have no access.
We say one thing and do quite another and deluded by infinite worldly attachments, we obtain not true understanding.
Says Ravi Dass, Thy slave, O Lord, I am sad at heart. Banishing Thine anger, take pity on my soul.
The ocean of peace is the Lord, in whose power are the miraculous tree, the wish-fulfilling gem and the elysian cow.
The four cardinal boons, eighteen super-natural powers and nine treasures are on the palm of His hand.
Why utterest thou not, "God, God, God", with thy tongue?
Abandon thou, the involvement in all other words. Pause.
Abandon thou, the involvement in all other words. Pause.
After good reflection Bias has stated the supreme reality, that nothing equals the Lord's Name.
Very fortunate are they, who remain absorbed in the trance of equipoise, embrace love for the Lord and are ultimately freed from wranglings.
Says Ravi Dass, enshrine thou, the Divine Light within thy mind and the fear of birth and death shall flee from thee.
If thou art a mountain, then I am thy peacock, O Lord.
If Thou art the moon, then I am thine red-legged partridge.
O Lord of wealth, if Thou breakest not with me, then I will not break with Thee.
For, If I break with Thee, with whom else shall I join? Pause.
If Thou art an earthen lamp, then I am Thy wick.
If thou art a place of pilgrimage, then I am Thine pilgrim.
True love I have joined with Thee, O Lord.
Attaching myself to Thee, I have broken with all others.
Wither-so-ever I go, thither I perform Thine service.
There is no other Lord, like Thee, O God.
By Thy meditation, death's noose is cut away.
To obtain Thine devotional service, O Lord, Ravi Dass sings Thy praise.
The body is a wall of water supported by the pillar of air, ovary and semen are its mortar.
The skeleton is of bones, flesh and veins: within it abides the poor soul bird.
O mortal, what is mine and what is thine?
As a bird perches on a tree, so does the soul in the body. Pause
Thou layest foundations and buildest walls.
Three and a half cubit measure of place is for thee in the end.
Thou beautifully dressest thy hair and wearest slanting turban on thy head.
But this body shall be reduced to a heap of ashes.
Lofty, are Thine palaces, and beauteous Thine brides,
but without the Lord's Name, the game is lost.
My caste is low, my lineage is low and mean is my birth.
I have entered Thy sanctuary, O my Luminous Lord, the King, says the cobbler, Ravi Dass.
I, a shoe mender, know not how to mend,
but people get their shoes repaired by me. Pause.
I have no awl with which I may stitch,
I have no hoe to put the patch with.
Attaching, attaching themselves with the world, people have been thoroughly ruined.
Without attaching myself thus with the world I have attained to my Lord.
Ravi Dass repeats the Lord's Name,
with the death's courier, I have, now no concern.
Sorath Measure. The hymns of Saint Bhikhan.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
The water flows from mine eyes, my body has become weak and my hair have assumed the milk-colour.
Mine throat is choked and cannot utter even a word, what can I, a mere mortal, do now?
O Sovereign Lord, the Gardner of the world, be Thou my Physician,
and save Thine saint. Pause.
There is pain in my forehead, burning in my body and anguish in my heart.
Such a disease, is grown in me, of which there is no medicine.
The Name of God, the Immaculate Nectareous water, is the best medicine in the world.
Says slave Bhikhan, by Guru's grace, I have obtained, the door of salvation.
Such a Name, an invaluable jewel and he sublime wealth, I have attained through meritorious deeds.
With various efforts, I have enshrined it in my mind but, by concealing, the jewel cannot remain concealed.
By mere narration God's praises cannot be narrated.
They are like sweets to a dumb person. Pause.
My tongue, by uttering, ears, on hearing, and mind, by reflecting over the Lord, are pleased and comforted.
Says Bhikhan, both mine eyes are content and wherever I see, there I see the Lord.
Dhanasri 1st Guru. Chaupade.
There is but One God. True is His Name and creative His personality. He is without, fear, without enmity, immortal in form, beyond birth and self-illumined. By Guru's grace is He obtained.
My soul is afraid, to whom should I complain?
I serve Him, who makes me forget my sorrow and is ever, ever and ever, the Giver.
My Lord is always brand-new. Ever and ever he is the Giver. Pause.
Night and day, I serve my Master and, in the end, He will deliver me.
Hearing and hearing the Lord's Name O my fascinating lady, I have crossed the world ocean.
O merciful Master's by Thy Name shall I swim across.
Unto Thee, I am ever a sacrifice. Pause.
In the whole world, there is but One True Lord and there is not any other.
He alone performs His service, on whom the Lord casts His gracious glance.
O my Beloved, how can I live without Thee?
Bless me with such greatness, that I may remain attached to thy Name.
There is no other second, O my Love, to whom I may go to address myself. Pause.
I serve my Lord and beg not another.
Nanak, is His slave and every moment is, every bit, a sacrifice unto Him.
O Lord every moment, I am ever bit a sacrifice unto Thy Name. Pause.
Dhanasri 1st Guru.
We are men of but one breath and know not the appointed time and moment of our departure.
Supplicates Nanak, serve thou Him to whom belong our soul and very life.
O blind, consider and see how many days thy life shall last.
O Lord, my breath, flesh and soul are all Thine and thou art very dear unto me.
Nanak, the poet, speaks, thus, O True Cherisher.
If Thou givest nothing to any man, k what can he pledge with Thee to receive Thy Bounties, O Lord?
Prays Nanak, the mortal obtains just the thing, which he is predestined to receiver.
Thou deceitful person remembers not the Lord's Name and practises deceit.
When he is driven captive to death's door, then, whilst going he regrets his actions.
As long as we are in this world, Nanak, we should hear some what and Speak some what of the Lord.
I have searched and found no way to remain here, so remain thou dead whilst alive.
Dhanasri 1st Guru.
There is but One God By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
How am I to remember the Lord? Him, I can remember not.
Without the Lord's meditation, my mind burns and my soul bewails.
He, the True Lord creates and adorns the mortal.
Forgetting Him, how can the mortal be good?
Through cleverness and command the Lord can be obtained not.
In What way, can I meet with my True Master, O my Mother? Pause.
Rare is the one, who goes out in search of the merchandise of the Lord's Name.
This Name merchandise none tastes (cherishes) and none eats (imbibes).
By pleasing people, the mortal obtains not honour.
If he, the Lord, preserve, then alone can the mortals honour be preserved.
Wherever I see, there I see the Lord pervading.
Without Thee, O Lords, I have no other place of rest.
However hard one may try to do, yet what can be done by his doing?
He alone becomes potent to do, whom, He, the True Lord, blesses.
Now, in a moment, or in the clapping of hands, I may have to arise and depart.
What face will I show the Lord, when I am, without any virtue?
As is the Lord's glance, so becomes the mortal.
Without the Lord's gracious glance, O Nanak, no one is saved.
Dhanasri 1st Him.
If God shows mercy, then alone can man remember Him.
His soul, is softened and he remains absorbed in the Lord's love.
His soul, he makes one with the Supreme soul.
His mind's duality is re-absorbed in the mind.
By Guru's grace the Lord is attained to.
If man's mind gets attached with the Lord, death, then, devours him not. Pause.
Remember the True Lord, man's mind is illumined.
Wherefore in the midst of mammon, he remains detached.
Such is the glory of the True Guru,
that, is the glory of the True Guru, that, in the midst of sons and wife, man obtains emancipation.
Such service, the Lord's slave renders unto Him,
that he surrenders his soul to Him to whom it belongs.
He, who is pleasing to the Lord, becomes acceptable in His court.
Such a slave obtains honour in the Lord's court.
The image of the True Guru he enshrines in his mind,
and he attains the boons, which he desires.
The True Lord showers His benediction on him,
how can then such a slave be afraid of death?
Says Nanak, if some one embraces Lord's meditation,
and enshrines affection for the True Gurbani,
then alone attains he to the gate of salvation.
This meditation of the Lord is the essence of all the worship and penances.
Dhanasri 1st Guru.
My soul burns over and over again.
Greatly agonized, the soul is distracted and falls a prey to many sins.
The body, that forgets the Guru's world,
screams like a chronic patient.
To prattle much is all the vain.
Without our saying, everything is known to the Lord. Pause.
It is He, who make our ears, eyes and nose,
Who has given us tongue to talk fluently.
He, who putting the man in the womb fire, has preserved him,
and at whose bidding the breath moves everywhere.
All these worldly attachments, affections and dainties,
all of them are but black stains on the soul.
He, who departs bearing the stains of sins on his face,
finds no place to sit in Lord's court.
Through Thine grace, O Lord, the recitation of Thy Name is attained.
By attaching wherewith the mortal is saved. There is no other recourse.
Even if, one be drowned in sins, still by meditation on the Name one is taken care of.
Nanak, the True Lord is Beneficent to all.
Dhanasri 1st Guru.
If a thief praises a man, his mind is not pleased.
If the thief reviles him then not even an iota of his honour is detracted.
No one takes the responsibility of a thief.
What a thief does, how can that be good?
Hear, O my mind, O thou blind and false dog!
Even without one's speaking, the True Lord knows everything. Pause.
A thief may be handsome, a thief may be wise,
but he is still like a counterfeit rupee worth only two pice.
If it is put and mixed with others,
even them, it is found to be false, as and when all the coins are assayed.
As man acts, so is he rewarded;
as he himself sows, so does he himself eats (reaps).
Even if one may shower praises on oneself,
yet as is one's understanding, so must one follow the way.
If a men tells hundreds of lies to conceal his falsehood,
even then he becomes not acceptable, though the whole world may call him good.
If it pleases Thee, O Lord even an unwise one becomes acceptable.
Nanak, the Wise Omniscient Lord knows everything.
Dhanasri 1st Guru.
The body is the paper and mind the order written thereon.
But the fool reads not the writ on his head.
In the Lord's court the writ of three kinds is inscribed.
Lo, the counterfeit one is of no avail there.
Nanak, if there be silver therein,
everyone then proclaims "It is genuine, it is genuine". Pause.
The Qazi tells lies and eats filth.
The Brahman slays life and takes ablution.
The blind Yogi knows not the way.
Hence, all the three design for their annihilation.
He alone is a Yogi, who knows the way to God.
By Guru's grace, he recognises but One Lord.
He alone is a Qazi, who turns away from the world,
and who, by Guru's grace, remains dead in life.
He alone is a Brahman, who reflects upon the Lord.
He saves Himself and saves all his generations as well.
Wise is he who cleanses his mind.
A Muslim is he, who removes his impurity.
He, who reads and acts thereon, becomes acceptable.
He is the one, on whose forehead is he stamp of God's court.
Dhanasri 1st Guru.
There is but One God, by True Guru's grace is He obtained.
No, no, this is not the time, when the people know the way to Yog and truth.
The world's places of worship are polluted and in this way, the world is being drowned.
In the Dark-age, the Lord's Name is the most Sublime.
A hypocrite closes his eyes and holds his nose to deceive the world. Pause.
Holding his nose with his thumb and two fingers he proclaims, "I am seeing the three worlds".
But he sees not anything behind him; O strange is this lotus-posture.
The Khatris have abjured their religion and have taken to the foreign language!
The whose world has assumed the same caste (is given to evil) and the ordinance of righteousness has lapsed.
The Hindus study the eight and ten Puranas, compiled and composed by scholars and reflect upon the Vedas.
Without the Lord's Name, there can be no emancipation, says Nanak, the Lord's slave.
Dhanasri 1st Guru. Present adoration.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
In the sky's salver, the sun and the moon are the lamps and the stars with their orbs, are the studded pearls.
The fragrance of sandal wood make Thy incense, wind Thy fan and all the vegetation Thine flowers, O Luminous Lord.
What a beautiful worship with lamps is being performed? Such is Thine adoration O Lord, the Destroyer of dread.
The celestial strain is the sounding of template drums. Pause.
Thousands are Thine eyes, yet thou hast no eye. Thousands are Thine forms, yet Thou hast not even one.
Thousands are Thine holy feet, yet Thou hast not one foot. Thousands are Thine noses and yet Thou art without a nose. I am bewitched by these plays of Thine.
Amongst all there is light and that light art Thou.
By His Light, the light shines within all the souls.
By Guru's teaching the Divine light becomes manifest.
Whatever pleases Him, that is His real worship.
My soul is bewitched by the honey of the lotus feet of God and, night and day, I am thirsty for them.
Bless Nanak, the pied cuckoo, with the Nectar of Thine mercy, so that he may have an abode in Thy Name, O Lord.
Dhanasri 3rd Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, H e is obtained.
This wealth of the Lord's Name is inexhaustible. It runs not short, nor goes it anywhere.
The Perfect Guru has shown it to me.
Unto my True Guru, I am ever a sacrifice.
By Guru's grace, I have enshrined the Lord within my mind.
They alone are wealthy, who cultivate love for the God's Name.
The Perfect Guru has shown me the Lord's treasure and by God's grace it has come to abide in my mind. Pause.
The mortal is automatically rid of demerits and enshrines merits in his mind,
through the Perfect Guru.
True are the hymns of the Perfect Guru,
by which the soul is easily absorbed in peace.
O people, my brethren, see a strange thing,
by slaying duality, the Lord is enshrined in the mind.
The priceless Name is obtained not in any other way.
By Guru's grace, It comes to abide within man's mind.
He, the unique Lord, abides within all.
By Guru's instruction, He becomes manifest into the mind.
He, who spontaneously knows and recognises the Lord,
O Nanak, he obtains the Name and his mind is appeased.
Dhanasri 3rd Guru.
Exceedingly infinite and Immaculate is the wealth of God's Name.
Through the Guru's word, one attains the brimful treasures of it.
Without the Name, deem all other riches as poison.
The egoist burns in the fire of worldly love.
Rare is the one, who, through the grace of the Guru, enjoys God's elixir.
Day and night he ever remains in bliss; through perfect good fortune, the Name is obtained. Pause.
The light of the Name lamp is pervading the three worlds.
He, who tastes the Name, becomes immaculate.
The Immaculate Name washes off the filth of ego.
Through true devotion, man ever abides in peace.
He alone is the God's man and slave, who enjoys the Lord's ambrosia.
He is ever in bliss and never in grief.
He Himself is emancipated and he emancipates others too.
He utters the God's Name and attains peace from the Lord.
Without the True Guru, the whole world perishes bewailing.
Night and day, it continues burning and attains not peace.
Meeting with the True Guru, all the cravings are extinguished.
Nanak, through the Name, one is blessed with peace and pleasure.
Dhanasri 3rd Guru.
Ever preserve thou in thy mind, the wealth of the Name of God,
who cherishes all the living beings.
They alone attain the wealth of salvation,
who are imbued with and bear love to the Lord's Name.
By the Guru's service man obtains the riches of the Lord's Name.
His inner self is illumined and he meditates on the God's Name.
This deep love of God is like the bride's love for her groom.
He, the Lord, enjoys the bride who bedecks herself with of equipoise.
In pride, no one finds one's Lord.
Straying away from the Primal Being, the mortal wastes away his life. Being, the mortal wastes away his life.
From, the Guru, are obtained, peace, poise, pleasure and the Divine Gurbani.
True is the Guru's service by which the mortal merges in the Name.
Blessed with the Name, the man ever remembers his Beloved Lord.
Through the true Name, he attains greatness.
He, the Creator-Lord, Himself abides in all the ages.
If the Master casts His gracious glance, then alone, one meets with Him.
Through the Guru's hymns, the Lord is enshrined in the mind.
Nanak, they, who are imbued with truth, they, who are imbued with truth, them, the Lord unites with Himself.
Dhanasri 3rd Guru.
The world is defiled and attaching there with the mortal too is defiled.
Fascinated by another, he comes and goes.
The love of another has ruined the whole world.
The perverse person bears the blows and loses his honour.
By Guru's service, man becomes immaculate.
Within him is enshrined the Name and sublime becomes his honour. Pause.
The Guru-wards are saved by seeking the Lord's protection.
Imbued with the Lord's Name, they implant within themselves, His devotional service.
God's servant perform His service and obtains honour.
Tinctured with Truth he is absorbed in the celestial peace.
Be it known that, rare is the purchaser of the True Name.
By Guru's instruction, he recognises his ownself.
True is his capital and turn is his trade.
Blessed is the person, who loves the Lord's Name.
Some, the true Lord, has attached to the True Name.
They hear the sublime Gurbani and the Name.
True is the service of the True Lord.
Nanak, the Lord's Name, is the embellisher of man.
Dhanasri 3rd Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto those who serve their Lord.
In their heart is Truth and the True Name is on their tongue.
Meditating on the Truest of the True, their sorrow departs.
Through the True Name, the Lord comes to abide in their mind.
Hearing the Guru's hymns, they wash off their filth,
and spontaneously enshrine the Lord's Name is their mind. Pause.
He, who stills his falsehood, fraud and the fire of desire,
procures peace, poise and pleasure in his mind.
If man walks in the Guru's will then, his ego is stilled,
and he attains to the True Mansion by singing God's praise.
The blind apostate neither knows the Name, nor understands the Gurbani,
and so he passes his life in misery.
If he meets the True Guru, then attains he the peace,
and from within him the ego is stilled and silenced.
Whom else should I address, when He, the Lord, is the sole Donor?
When the Lord extends His mercy, then does the mortal attain His Name.
Meeting with the Loved Guru, I sing the True Lord's praise.
Be being truthful, O Nanak, I have become pleasing to the True One.
Dhanasri 3rd Guru.
When the mind is conquered then conquering the mind?
How can God be obtained, without conquering them mind.
Rare is the one, who knows the medicine to subdue this mind.
That man alone, knows that the mind's subdued through the Name,
He, whom the Lord pardons, him, He blesses with glory.
By Guru's grace, the Lord comes to abide in his mind. Pause.
When the holy man does virtuous deeds and actions,
then alone, he comes to understand this mind.
The mind is intoxicated, like an elephant with the wine of self-conceit.
The Guru applies the goad of the Name and regenerates it.
The mind is uncontrollable. Some rare one controls it.
If one eats the uneatable, then alone he is rendered immaculate.
Through the Guru, this mind is embellished.
Then one sheds, from within, him, ego and sin.
They, whom the Primal Being keeps united in His union,
separate not ever and remain merged in His Name.
His own power, the Lord Himself knows,
Nanak, it is through the Guru, that the mortal realises the Name.
Dhanasri 3rd Guru.
The ignorant fools amass the perishable wealth.
The blind, unwise and apostates are gone astray.
The poisonous wealth ever causes anguish.
It goes not with the man, nor does it yield any profit.
The True riches are obtained through the Guru's instruction,
and the false wealth ever continues coming and going. Pause.
All the silly, disbelievers go astray and die away.
They are drowned in the dreadful world ocean and they get to neither this shore nor that.
Through perfect destiny they meet the True Guru,
and, imbued with the True Name day and night, remain detached.
Throughout the four yugas, the true Gurbani is the only ambrosia.
By perfect good fortune, the, man is absorbed in the Lord's Name.
The adepts, the strivers and all the men long for the Name.
But it is through perfect destiny that it is obtained.
The True Lord is everything and True is He.
Rare is the person, who realise the sublime Lord.
The Truest of the true, Himself implants the True Name in the mind.
Nanak, the Lord Himself sees all and Himself engageth man to Truth.
Dhanasri 3rd Guru.
The worth and the state of the Lord's Name cannot be described.
Blessed are the persons who fix their attention on the Name alone.
True is the Guru's instruction and true the Lord's meditation.
Blessing with His contemplation, the Lord Himself pardons the man.
Wondrous is the God's Name, which the Lord Himself preaches.
In the Dark age, it is through the Guru, that the Lord's Name is attained. Pause.
We are ignorant and ignorance is within our mind,
and in every thing we act in ego.
By Guru's grace this ego is eliminated,
and granting pardon, the Lord blends us with Himself.
The riches of the world give rise to excessive ego;
the man is drowned in pride and receive not honour.
Forsaking self-conceit, one ever abides in peace,
by Guru's instruction, one praises the True Lord.
He, the Creator, Himself creates all.
Without Him there is no other second.
He alone attaches to Truth, whom the Lord Himself attaches.
Nanak, through the Name, the mortal acquires peace hereafter.
Rag Dhanasri. 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
I am a beggar and mumper of Thine and Thou art my own Beneficent Lord.
Be merciful and bless me, the beggar, with Thy Name so that I my ever remain imbued with Thine love, O Lord.
I am a sacrifice unto Thy Name, O True Lord!
The one Lord is the cause of all the causes and there is not any other second. Pause.
I, a mean fellow, have wandered through many rounds (of lives). Now, O Lord, bless me with some compassion.
Be merciful and grant me Thine vision O God and bless me with such a gift.
Say Nanak, the shutters of doubt have opened and, by Guru's grace, I have known the Lord.
The True love is enshrined within me, and my mind is propitiated with the True Guru.
Dhanasri 4th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
O God, the saints and devotees who serve Thee, all their sins Thou washest off.
Take pity on me, O Lord and keep me in the society, that is dear to Thee.
I cannot narrate the praise of God, the Gardener of the world forest.
We, the sinners, are sinking in water, like stones. Be merciful and ferry us, the stones, across. Pause.
The rust of the poisonous sins of many births sticks to us; joining the society of saints, it is so thoroughly fled away,
as the impurity of gold is completely removed and eliminated by heating it in the fire.
Day and night, I utter the Name of the Lord God and repeating Lord Master's Name I enshrine Him it in my heart.
The Lord Master's Name is the perfect cure in this world and uttering the Lord's Name I have stilled my ego.
The Lord, God is inaccessible, of unfathomable wisdom; Illimitable, Omnipotent and Infinite.
O Life of the world, show mercy unto Thy slave, and save the honour of servant Nanak.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
The pious persons of God meditate on God and their distress, doubt and dread flee away.
The Lord Himself makes them perform His service and the light of Guru's instruction shines with in them.
He alone, is truly detached who is imbued with the Lord's Name.
Hearing of the Lord God's discourse is pleasing to his mind and through pleasing to his mind and through Guru's instruction, he enshrines love for the Lord. Pause.
The Lord God is the caste of the saintly persons. Thou art my Lord and I am a puppet of Thine.
O Lord Master, as is the understanding Thou blessest us with, so are the world which we utter.
What are we? Tiny worms and minutest germs. Thou art our great grand Lord.
Thine state and extent, I can narrate not. O my Lord. How can I, the unfortunate one, meet with Thee?
O Lord God, my Master, show mercy unto me, that I may be engaged in Thine service.
My Lord, make me the slave of Thine slaves. I ever utter the Divine discourse.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
The True Guru is the Lord's saint and the true person, who utters the Lord Master's Gurbani.
Who-so-ever recites and hears Gurbani, he is emancipated and I am ever a sacrifice unto him.
O God's saints, hear ye the Lord's praise with thine ears.
For a moment and trice, hear thou the sermon of the Lord Master, and all thy sins and misdeeds shall be annulled. Pause.
The greatest of the great are the person, who attain to such a saint and holy man.
I beg for the dust of their feet and I cherish a longing for Thee, O my Lord Master.
God's Name, and the Lord Master is the fruit-bearing plant, They, who meditate on Him, are satiated.
Quaffing the Lord God's elixir, I am sated and all my hunger and thirst art removed.
They, who are blessed with high, very high destiny, they alone, ponder and reflect on God.
O Lord God, my Master, unite servant Nanak, with their society and make him the slave of their slaves.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
I am blind, ignorant, and absorbed in the poisonous sins. How can I walk in the Guru's way?
May the peace-bestowing True Guru, show his mercy and attach me to his skirt.
O Guru's sikhs and friends, walk ye in the Guru's way.
Whatever the Guru say, accept that as good; unique is the Lord God's discourse. Pause.
O Saints, God's slaves and brothers, hearken ye all and serve the Guru very promptly.
Tie up the service to the True Guru as thy viaticum of God's way, and think not of to-day or tomorrow.
O saints of God, utter ye the God's Name as God's saint walks with God.
They, who remember God, become like God and the playful and sportive Lord meets them.
To repeat the Lord God's Name is the yearning, I long for. O God, the forest dweller, have mercy on me.
My Master, unite me, the slave Nanak, with the society of saints and make me the dust of the feet of holymen.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
God, God, the Lord God is the rain drop and I, a sparrow hawk, am wailing and bewailing for it.
O Lord, God, my Master, shower Thy benediction and pour into my mouth Thy Name drop, even for a moment.
Without God, I can live not even for a second.
As an opium-addict dies without opium, so perish I without the Lord. Pause.
Thou, O God, art an exceedingly deep ocean and I can find not even a trace of Thine limits.
Thou, O Lord, are the remotest of the remote and the most excellent of the excellent. Thine extent and state, Thou alone knowest.
God's saints and slaves meditate on God, and are imbued with the deep crimson colour of the Guru.
Great is the glory of the Lord God's devotee and contemplating on the Master he attains sublime honour.
God Himself is the Master and Himself the servant. He Himself creates the atmosphere for his service.
Slave Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary, O Lord Now, preserve Thou, the honour of Thy saint.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
O brother, tell me the religion of the Dark-age. How can I, the seeker of salvation, be emancipated?
The Lord God's meditation and Name are the boat and raft.
Meditating on God, the swimmer swims across the world ocean.
O sire, God, save thou the honour of God's slave. My Lord Master, make me utter Thy Name, I ask for Thine devotional service alone. Pause.
God's slaves, who recite the Lord's Gurbani, they are dear to God.
The writ, which is written by the recording angles, is erased and the balance of account with the death couriers is all settled.
Joining the society of the holy persons, the devotees of God remember the Lord Master in their mind.
The piercing sun of desires fire has set and the cool and shining moon has risen.
Thou art the great Lord, highly unapproachable and incomprehensible. Thou Thyself hast created the universe from Thine ownself.
O Lord, take pity on servant Nanak and make him the slave of the slaves of Thine slaves.
Dhanasri 4th Guru. Dupadas.
God is but One, By True Guru's grace is He attained.
Enshrining the Lord, the Enemy of ego, in thy mind, reflect and ponder thou on Him and utter the Name of the Lord, the Enticer of hearts.
The Lord is unperceivable, unapprehensible and unreachable; through the perfect Guru manifests He.
The pervading Lord is the philosopher's stone and sandal wood, whilst I am dry timber and iron.
On associating with God and God's congregation, God has transformed me into Gold and sandalwood. Pause.
Though man may repeat by mouth the nine grammars, the six Shashtras and the six chapters of Vedas, but my God Lord is pleased not like this.
Says slave Nanak, ever meditate thou on God in thy mind. It is like this that my God Lord is pleased.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
Utter thou the Lord's praise, know God and wait upon the True Guru; thus contemplate, thou, the Lord Master's Name.
So shalt thou, be acceptable in God's court, enter not womb again and merge in the Lord's Light.
contemplate the Lord's Name, O my soul and be all at peace.
God's praise is the most sublime and the most exalted. The Beloved Lord God's service emancipates all. Pause.
When God, the Treasure of mercy, showed mercy, then the Guru blessed me with the Lord's meditation and I came to enshrine love for the Lord.
I have abandoned excessive worries, enshrined the God's Name in my mind and now, the Lord has become my Friend, O Nanak.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
Read of God, write of God, repeat God's Name, sing God's praise and thy God shall ferry thee across the terrible ocean.
In thy mind, by word and in thought, meditate on God, that He may be pleased. Thou is the Name of Lord, the Enemy of ego, repeated.
O my soul, dwell thou on God, the world-Lord.
My friend, join thou the saints society.
Sing the praise of God, the Lord of forests and thou shalt ever be happy, day and night. Pause.
When Lord God cast a glance of mercy on me, then my mind made an effort and, remembering the Lord Master's Name I have been emancipated.
O my Lord, preserve Thou, Thy servant Nanak's honour, who has come and sought Thine refuge.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
Eighty four adepts, Budhas, thirty-three crores of gods and silent sages, all long for Thy Name, O dear Lord.
Some rare one, on whose forehead the loving adoration of God is writ, receives the name by Guru's grace.
My soul, meditate thou on the Lord's Name, singing God's praise is the most sublime task.
They, who sing and hear Thy praise, O Lord, unto them, I am ever a sacrifice. Pause.
O Lord God, my cherisher, I have sought Thine protection and whatever Thou givest, that I receive.
O Lord, Merciful to the meek, bless me with this boon because Nanak, has a great yearning for meditation on God.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
All the sikhs and servant come to worship Thee, O Lord, and all of them sing the Lord God's sublime Gurbani.
God approves the singing and hearing of those who accept the True Guru's dictate as perfectly true.
The Lord is the place of pilgrimage on the dreadful world ocean. O brother, repair thou to the Lord and utter His praise.
O saints, only those men are commended in the God's court, who understand the God's discourse. Pause.
The Lord Himself is the Guru, Himself the disciple and Himself the Performer of the wondrous frolics.
O slave Nanak, he alone unites with God, whom He Himself unites. He forsakes all others and him alone the Lord likes.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
The Lord is the fulfiller of aspirations and the Giver of all the comforts. In His power is the elysian cow.
so, O my soul, meditate, on such Lord, then alone, shalt thou obtain all the comforts, O my soul.
O my mind, ever, contemplate thou the True Name, the Name.
By ever meditating on the Immaculate God Lord, the mortal's face becomes bright in this world and the world beyond. Pause.
Wherever is the God's meditation, from there hasten away all the calamities, Only the very fortunate ones contemplate on the Lord.
The Guru has blessed slave Nanak with this understanding that by meditating on the Lord Master, man crosses the terrible world ocean.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
My Lord, seeing God's vision I obtain peace.
My pain Thou knowest, O king, What can anyone else know? Pause.
O King, verily Thou art my True Lord and whatever Thou doest, all that is true.
Whom should I call a liar, when there is none else but Thee, O King?
Thou art contained amongst all O Lord, and everyone thinks of Thee day and night.
Everyone begs of Thee, O Lord, and Thou alone bestowest gifts on all.
All are under Thine sway, O Lord and there is none outside of Thee.
All the beings are Thine, and Thou belongst to all, my Lord. Everyone shall ultimately merge in Thee.
Thou art the hope of all, O my Beloved, and everyone meditates on thee, O my Banker.
As it pleaseth Thee, so keep Thou me, O my Beloved Of slave Nanak, Thou art the True King.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
There is but One God By True Guru's grace, He is attained.
My Lord, is the Destroyer of fear, Remover of pain, the Lover of His saints and without form and feature.
Millions of sins are effaced in an instant, when, through the Guru, on remember the Name.
My soul is attached to my beloved Lord.
My Lord, compassionate to the poor, has shown mercy and has put my five enemies under my control. Pause.
Beauteous is Thy seat and beauteous Thine form. Thine saints look beauteous in Thy court.
O the Beneficent Lord of all the beings, extend Thou Thy mercy and deliver me.
Thy colour is known not, nor is Thine form seen who can realise Thy power?
Thou art contained in the water, land, sky and all the places, O Lord of Infinite beauty and the Holder of mountain.
All the mortals sing Thy praise, O Thou imperishable Lord, the Enemy of pride.
Serf Nanak has sought the protection at Thy door, O Lord. As it pleaseth Thee, so save Thou him.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The fish, which is in deep love with water, loses its life without it.
Involved in the love of lotus, the bumble-bee dies, It finds not its way out to escape.
Now my soul has cultivated love with one Lord.
By Guru's instruction, I have known Him, who dies not, nor is born and is ever with me. Pause.
Inebriated by lust, the elephant is ensnared. The poor animal falls into another's power.
The deer offers its head for the love of the tune of hunter's bell and through that love, is he slain.
Beholding his family the mortal is allured by covetousness and clings to mammon.
Very much engrossed in worldly valuables, he deems them his own but, for sure, he departs leaving them behind.
Know that he, who has love with any but God, shall ever be miserable.
Says Nanak, the Guru has explained to me that there is eternal bliss in the Lord's love.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The Lord has mercifully blessed me with His Name and freed me of my bonds.
I have forsaken all the worldly affairs from me mind and the Lord has attached me to the Guru's feet.
In the society of saints, I have renounced other cares.
Digging a pit I have buried therein my haughty disposition, worldly attachments and my mind's desires. Pause.
No one is, now, my adversary, nor am I am enemy of any one.
The Lord who has spread the world, is within all and this understanding I have gathered from the Guru.
I have befriended all, and unto everyone, I am a friend.
When the separation of my mind was removed, then I was united with my Lord, the King.
My impudence is gone, ambrosia rains upon me and the Guru's hymns seem sweet unto me.
Nanak beholds God pervading everywhere, in ocean, earth and sky.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Since I have seen the sight of the saint Guru, fruitful have become my day.
By ever singing the praises of Lord, the Creator, I have obtained the supreme bliss.
Now I ever sing the Lord's praise within my mind.
My mind is illumined and is ever in peace. The perfect True Guru I have now obtained. Pause.
When God, the Treasure of virtues abides in the mind, then, vanish all the pains, doubts and dreads.
Imbibing love for the Lord's Name, I have attained the Incomprehensible Thing.
Free from all anxieties and rid of all sorrows, now my grief, greed and worldly attachment are gone.
By God's grace my ailment of egotism is cared and death's myrmidon is no longer a terror unto me.
Guru's service, Guru's labour and Guru's command are now sweet unto me.
Says Nanak I am devoted to the Guru, who has released me from the death-courier's clutches.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
He alone is wise and Omniscient to whom belong our body, soul and wealth and His is the entire universe.
When He hears my weal and woe, it is then that my condition takes a turn for the better.
My mind is satisfied with my Lord alone.
Many other efforts people have make, but I value them not even a bit. Pause.
The Nectar Name is the priceless gem. The Guru has given me this piece of advice.
The (Name)is neither lost nor it wavers, rather remains stable, and my soul is perfectly satiated with it.
The vices, which tore me from Thee, O Lord, their role is ended now.
When gold ornaments melt into a lump, even then, they are said to be nothing but gold.
The diving light has become manifest unto me, I am filled with poise, peace and Lord's praise, and celestial strain rings within me.
Says Nanak, I have built an eternal mansion for myself and the Guru has constructed it.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The craving of even the great kings and the big land-lords is not quenched.
Intoxicated with the pleasure of wealth, they remain engrossed in it and their eyes see not anything else.
In sin none has ever been satiated.
As the fire is satiated not with any fuel, so how can the mortal be content without the Lord? Pause.
Day by day man takes viands and many victuals, but his hunger is sated not.
He makes effort like a dog and searches in four directions.
The lustful and sensuous man desires many women and his spying of others homes ceases not.
Day by day he commits adultery and then regrets, In woe and greed he withers away.
Unrivalled and invaluable is the Lord God's Name It is a treasure of ambrosia.
Nanak, peace, poise and pleasure is with the saints and through the Guru, Nanak has come to know this.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Nothing, that this man repeatedly runs after, equals the Lord's Name.
He, whom the Guru blesses with this Nectar, him does it befit.
He, who tastes the one Lord's Name-Nectar, in his mind abide not the craving of eating and wearing or another. Pause.
He, who receives even a drop of the Name-Nectar,
his mind and body bloom and are reverdured.
I can describe not his glory and tell not his worth.
Through effort, the Lord, meets not nor meets He through service: He comes and meets all too spontaneously.
He, unto whom my Lord extends His mercy, practises the Guru's instruction.
The Lord is merciful to the meek and ever compassionate and He cherishes all the beings.
The Lord is mingled with Nanak like wrap and woof and cherishes him as the mother does her child.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru, who has implanted the Lord God's Name within me,
and who showed me the straight path in the great wilderness and darkness.
My Lord, the cherisher of the world and the Master of universe is my very life.
Here and hereafter, He is concerned about me regarding everything. Pause.
Through His meditation, I have attained all treasures, respect, greatness and perfect honour.
Remembering His Name, millions of sins are erased. All the saints long for the dust of Lord's feet.
If some one desire the fulfillment of all aspirations of one's mind, one should serve the One Supreme Treasure.
He is my Supreme and infinite Lord and meditating on Him, man swims across.
Meeting the saint society, I am blessed with comfort, peace and supreme bliss and my honour is preserved.
To gather's the wealth of God's Name and to taste the feed of God's Name: Yea, Nanak has make these his dainties of life.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Thou hast adopted the way to do such deeds, which shall bring thee shame.
Thou slanderest the saints and adorest the mammon-worshippers. Such an evil way thou hast firmly adopted.
Strayed by the love of worldly valuables, thou lovest another.
Enchanted city or green leaves of the forest: likewise is thy state, O mortal. Pause.
Though its body be plastered with the sandal paste, yet the donkey remains happy in the association of dust.
The mortal develops not fancy for the Lord's Nectar, but loves the potion of poison.
The sublime and noble saints are met with by good fortune and they alone are pure and immaculate in this world.
The jewel of human life is passion away in vain; it is being lost in exchange for glass.
When the Guru applies to the eyes the slave of gnosis, the sins and sorrows of many births flee away.
By loving the One Lord in the society of saints, Nanak has escaped from these troubles.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
I carry water for, wave the fan over and grind the corn of the saints and sing the glory and praise of the World-Lord.
With every breath my soul remembers the name, and in it finds the treasure of peace.
O my Master, take Thou pity one me.
Bless me with such an understanding, O my Lord, that ever and ever I may meditate on Thee. Pause.
By Thine grace, worldly attachment and ego are eradicated and doubt is dispelled.
Lord, the embodiment of beatitude, is contained amongst all. Wheresoever I go, I see Him there.
My Lord, Thou art kind, compassionate, the treasure of mercy the Purifier of sinners, and Master of the world.
I shall obtain millions of comforts joys and kingdoms, If Thou makest me repeat, with my mouth, Thy Name even for a trice.
That alone is the perfect worship, penance and devotional service, which is pleasing to the Lord's mind.
Remembering the Lord's Name, all the desires are quenched and Nanak is sated and satiated.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The mammon, which keeps under its control, the world of three dispositions and the four directions of universe,
and which destroys the merits of sacred feasts, ablutions, penances and places of pilgrimage, before her what is this poor man?
I grasped the Lord's protection and then was I emancipated.
By saints grace, when I sang the Lord God Master's praise, then sere removed my sins and ailments. Pause.
Neither man hears her, nor talks she with her mouth, nor is she seen captivating the mortals.
Administering intoxicating herb, so does she mislead the mortals that she seems sweet to the mind of all.
In every home, she has implanted the sense of duality between the mother, father, sons, friends and brothers.
Some have more and some less, amongst themselves they all fight, fight to death.
I am a sacrifice unto my True Guru, who has shown me this wondrous play.
With the inner fire, the world is being consumed but, to the Lord's devotee, mammon clings not.
By saints grace, I have attained the supreme bliss and all my bonds are broken.
Nanak has obtained the wealth of the Lord God's Name and he has earned and carried it to his home.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
O Master, Thou art my Beneficent Lord, the Cherisher and the Spouse.
Every moment, Thou nursest me, I, Thine child, have Thy support alone.
With one tongue, Thou nursest me. I, Thine child, Thy support alone.
With one tongue of mine, what excellences of Thine can I narrate?
Infinite and Limitless art Thou, O Lord; Thine end, no one knows. Pause.
Thou destroyer millions of my sins and instructest me in many ways.
I am ignorant, with little and trifling understanding. Save me Thou, by Thy holy innate nature.
I seek Thy protection as Thou alone art my hope and sympathetic friend. O merciful Master and Saviour, save, Thou Nanak, the slave of Thy house.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Worship, fasting, frontal mark, ablution, the bestowal of copious alms and charity,
self-mortification and the utterance of sweet words, with none of these the Lord is pleased.
Repeating the revered Lord's Name, the soul obtains peace.
All search for Him in various ways, but the search is difficult and He is found not. Pause.
Recitation, penance, wandering over the earth, attachment to austerities with body reversed,
and following the path of Jogis and Jains: by such means the Lord is pleased not.
The ambrosial Name an the Lord's praise are invaluable and he alone obtains them, to whom the Lord shows mercy.
Meeting the society of saints, slave Nanak is blessed with the Lord's love and his life night, passes in peace.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Is there any one, who may deliver me of my bonds, unite me with my Lord, read out to me the Lord God's Name,
and render this mind stable and stationary, so that is wanders not any where again?
Is there any such friend of mine?
I shall give him all my chattel, life and heart and dedicate unto him, my soul as well. Pause.
Other's wealth, other, body and other's slander, profess not love for them.
Mix thou with saints, converse with the saints and keep thy mind awake in God's praise.
The kind and compassionate Lord Master is the Treasure of virtue and all the comforts.
O Lord, the World Cherisher Nanak prays for the bounty of Thy name Love Thou, him, as the mother does her child.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The Lord Master saves His saints.
He, who thinks ill of the God's attendant, him, the Lord destroys at last. Pause.
Of His slave, the Lord Himself becomes the Helper, and suffering defeat, his slanderers run away.
Roaming and rambling they perish there and abide not, in their home, again.
Nanak has sought the protection of God, the Destroyer of anguish and ever sings His infinite praise.
In the court of this world and the world-beyond, the calumniator's countenance is blackened.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Now, I meditate over God, my saviour.
The Lord has purified me, the delinquent, in a instant and rid me of all the ailments. Pause.
Conversing with the saints my lust, wrath, and avarice are annihilated.
Remembering and remembering the Prefect Lord, I have saved all my associates.
The Primal sermon is the only cure for the mind and within my mind, I have placed reliance on the Lord.
Nanak ever longs for the dust of the Lord's feet and, again and again, is a sacrifice unto the Lord.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
I have contracted love with the Lord.
Ever a succourer of mine is my True Guru, who has torn down the flag of pain. Pause.
Giving me His hand and deeming me His own, the Lord has protected me and removed all my troubles.
The Lord has blackened the faces of the slanderers and Himself become the succourer of His serf.
The True Lord has become my Protector and has saved me, hugging me to His bosom.
Singing God's praise, Nanak has become fearless and now, ever enjoys peace.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
O Merciful Master, Thy name is the cure-all.
I, the miserable one, realise not Thy will. Thou Thyself cherisheth me ever, O Lord. Pause.
My Lord, take pity on me and dispel another's love from within me.
Shatter Thou my shackles and take me as Thy own, so that I may never lose the life's battle.
O my Omnipotent and Merciful Master, seeking Thine protection, I sustain life.
Through out the eight watches of the day, I meditate on the Lord. Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Him.
Rag Dhanasri 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
O my Lord, do Thou save me.
By myself I can do nothing, O my Lord. Mercifully, bless me, Thou, with Thy Name. Pause.
Family and the world are like ocean of fire.
Through doubt and worldly attachment, the man is enveloped by the darkness of ignorance.
One is ever thinking of high and lower dispositions, pain and pleasure.
His thirst and hunger are allayed not.
My mind is engrossed in desire and the disease of vice.
The five demons, mortal's companions, are extremely incorrigible.
The creatures, souls and the wealth of the world are all Thine, O Lord.
O Nanak, know that the Lord is ever near.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The Lord destroys the distress of the meek and Himself preserves the honour of His serfs.
God is a ship to ferry across and the treasure of virtues. Pain can touch Him not.
In the saints, congregation, meditate thou, on God, the Cherisher of the World.
I can think of no other way. Making this effort, pass thou the time of the Darkage. Pause.
In the beginning and the end, there is none except Him, the merciful and pervading Lord.
By uttering God's Name and remembering the Lord, end thou thy coming and going.
The Vedas, the Simirtis and Shastras say, and the saints also endorse that,
in the saints society, salvation is obtained and the darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
Thou Lord's lotus feet are the support of His slave, and they alone are his capital and stock-in-trade.
The True Lord is Nanak's strength, honour and support and He alone is his protection.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Wandering and wandering, I have met the saintly person, the Perfect Guru, and he has instructed me.
All other devices avail not, so I meditate only on the Lord God's Name.
Therefor, I have sought the protection of my Lord, the Cherisher of the universe.
I have entered the sanctuary of the Perfect Lord and entanglements are all broken. Pause.
The Paradise, the firmament, the under-world and the globular earth, are all engrossed in mammon.
To save the soul and to rescue thine entire lineage, meditate thou on the Lord Master's Name.
Nanak, singing the immaculate Lord's Name, all the treasure are obtained.
Some rare person, whom the Lord mercifully blesses, understands the Name.
Dhanasri 5th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Thou amassest the straw, which thou hast to leave off.
Which avail man not, in those entanglements is he involved.
He contracts love with those which go not with him.
They, who are his enemies, them, he deems his friends.
In such misgiving the world is gone astray.
The ignorant man loses the invaluable commodity of human life. Pause.
He does not like even to countenance truth and chastity.
Deeming falsehood and deception sweet, he is attached with them.
He, loves gifts and forgets the Giver.
The wretched creature thinks not of death.
He weeps for other's commodity.
He forfeits the benefit of all his religious deeds.
He understands not the Lord's will and continues coming and going.
He commits sins and then regrets.
Whatever pleases Thee, O Lord, that alone is acceptable.
To Thy will, I am a sacrifice.
Poor Nanak is a slave and a serf of Thine.
So, save, me Thou, O my Lord Master.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
For me, the meek one, the Lord's Name is the prop.
For me, the utterance of God's Name is earning of livelihood.
I have only the Lord's Name amass.
It avails then (human beings) in this world and the world beyond.
Imbued with the infinite love of the Lord's Name,
the saints sing the praise of the one formless God's. Pause.
In Complete humility lies the glory of the saints.
The saints realise their greatness in God's praise.
The saints happiness is in the meditation of the World-Lord.
In it the saints find peace and their anxieties are dispelled.
Where the saints and sages congregate,
there, sing they, Lord's praise with music and poetry.
In the society of saints is bliss and peace.
Their company is obtained by them, on whose forehead such destiny is written.
Joining both my hands, I supplicate the Lord.
I wash His feet and utter His praise.
O Kind and compassionate Lord, I ever remain in thine presence.
Nanak lives on the support of the dust of saints feet.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
He, who meditates on the Lord, why should he be afraid of anything?
Through fear and fright, the poor ego centrics are ruined, the poor egocentrics are ruined. Pause.
Over my head is my Guru God, my mother and father.
Fruitful is his vision and immaculate his service.
The one pure Lord is his capital.
Meeting the society of saints, man's mind is illumined.
The Beneficent Lord of all the beings is filling all the places.
Millions of pains are removed with God's Name.
That person is rid of all the agony of birth and death,
in whose soul and body the Lord abides by Guru's grace,
Whom the Lord attaches to His skirt,
he alone obtains a place in His court.
They alone are the saints, who are pleasing to the True Lord.
They become free of the Death's myrmidon.
True is the Lord and true is His court.
Who can think of and narrate His worth?
He is within all the hearts and is the support of all.
Nanak begs for the dust of the saints feet.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Within home and without, I have Thine support, O Lord, Thou art ever with Thy slave.
O my Beloved Lord, take pity on me, that I may utter God's Name with love.
The Lord is the only support of His slave.
Whatever Thou doest or causeth to do, O Lord, in that I deem my welfare to lie. Pause.
The Lord is my honour, the Lord is my emancipation, and merited gospel of the World Cherisher is my wealth.
Slave Nanak seeks the protection of the Lord God's feet; this way of life he has learnt from the saints.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The Lord has fulfilled all my desire. Hugging me to his bosom the Guru has saved me.
The Guru has saved me from being (drowned) or (burnt) in the world ocean. No, none calls it impassable any more.
They, who have true belief in their mind,
ever they enjoy happiness and bliss, seeing and continuing to see the Lord's glory. Pause.
I seek the refuge of the feet of the Perfect supreme Lord, the knower of hearts and clearly see His present.
Assaying well, the Lord has owned Nanak and preserved the root (bud) of his devotees.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Wherever I see, there I see Him present, He My Master, is never far from any place.
O my soul, ever remember Him, who is contained in everything.
He alone is accounted a companion, who separates not here and hereafter.
Paltry is said to be the pleasure, which passes off in an instance. Pause.
Giving sustenance the Lord cherisher all and He is short of nothing.
Every moment, that Lord is mine takes care of His creatures.
Undecievable, Unpierceable, and Infinite is my Lord and supremely high is His from.
Contemplating and reflecting over the Embodiment of wonder and beauty, His slave make merry.
My mercifully Master, bless me with such an understanding, by which I may remember Thee.
From the Lord, Nanak asks for the gift of he dust of this saints feet.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
He, who had sent, thee, his now recalled Thee; so, return thou home with peace and pleasure.
In blissful melody sing thou the praise of God, with gladness and glee and thus acquire an eternal empire.
O my friend, come thou into my home.
Thine enemies, the Lord Himself has warded of and thy calamity in past. Pause.
The Creator-Lord has glorified thee and thine running and ramblings have ceased.
In thy home are the eternal rejoicing and playing of musical instruments and thy spouse has honoured thee.
Remain firm, wobble thou never, and have the mainstay of the Guru's word.
Thou shalt be hailed in the entire world and thy countenance shalt be bright in the Lord's court.
He, to whom the beings belong Himself transforms them and Himself becomes their succourer.
The Creator-Lord has worked a wonder, O Nanak and ever true is His greatness.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
O my dear saints, hearken ye to my supplication.
Without the Lord, no one obtains salvation. Pause.
O man, do thou, only the pious deeds, To ferry across, God is the only ship, other entanglements shall serve thee no purpose.
The real life consists in serving the luminous Lord and this instruction the Guru has imparted unto me.
Embrace not love for that, which has but little significance. At the last moment, it, shall not go with thee.
O the beloved saint of God, with thy soul and body, remember thou the Lord, by whose association thine bonds shall be broken.
In thy mind, grasp the protection of the lotus feet of the supreme Lord and rest not thy hope on any other support.
O Nanak, he alone is a devotee and he, the gnostic, the contemplator and the penitent, to whom the Lord extends His mercy.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
O my dear, good great and sublime it is, to ask for the Lord's Name.
See with eyes, wide opened, hear saints' word, enshrine thou, in thy mind, the Lord of life in, thy mind, the Lord of life and know that all have to die. Pause.
They apply of sandal and aloewood perfumes, the enjoyment of worldly pleasure and the commission of various mortal sins, deem all these as insipid.
Thou deemest thy body and wealth thy own and embraceth not the Lord's meditation, even for a moment. Mind thou, nothing out of the property and riches shall go with thee.
He, who has the good fortune, grasp the protection of the Saints, skirt. He associates with the pious persons him, the death's myrmidon harasses not.
Nanak's mind is attached with the one Formless Lord, his ego is stilled and he has obtained the supreme treasure.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Remember thou the one Lord. remember the one Lord. remember the one Lord, O my love.
He shall save thee from strifes, sufferings, avarice, worldly attachment and the most dreadful world ocean. Pause.
Meditate thou on Him with thy every breath, every moment and day and night.
In the society of saints, meditate thou on His Name fearlessly and enshrine the Lord's treasure in thy mind.
Deliberate thou over the World-Lord's merits and pay homage to His lotus feet.
Nanak, the dust of the saints feet blesses the mortal with pleasure and peace.
Dhanasri 5th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Remembering, remembering and ever remembering my Lord, I am at peace, I think of Him, with every breath.
In this world and the world beyond, God, my succour is with me and protects me everywhere.
The Guru's word abides with my soul.
It sinks not in water, nor can a thief take it away, and neither can fire burn it. Pause.
As wealth is for the poor, the staff for the blind and mother's milk for an infant, so is Gurbani for me.
In the world ocean, I have found the Lord's ship, the Merciful Master has taken pity on Nanak.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The merciful World-Lord has become compassionate unto me and His Name-Nectar has permeated my mind.
The nine treasure, riches and the miraculous powers cling to the feet of the God's slave.
The saints ever abide in joy at all the places.
The Lord of the devotees is pervading every where, within and without the home. Pause.
None can equal him, whose side the Lord of the universe takes.
Nanak repeats the Name of Him, by whose meditation the fear of death is removed.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Beholding his riches, the rich man takes pride and so is the landlord proud of his lands.
The King deems the entire Kingdom to be his own, so does the God's slave's consider the Lord's support.
If any one considers Lord as his only support,
then, the Lord exercises all His might to Protect him and His might loses not. Pause.
Forsaking all others, I have sought one Lord's support and by saying "Protect me, protect me" I have come to the Lord.
By saints grace, Nanak's mind has become pure and he sings God's praise.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
He alone, who is imbued with God's love in this age, is said to be a warrior.
Everything is under his control, who, by the Perfect True Guru's grace, conquers his self.
Sing thou the Lord's praise with deepest love.
They, who seek Lord's refuge and meditate on His Name, are blended with the Lord's. Pause.
The feet of God, slave abide within my mind, and in their association, my body is rendered pure.
O Treasure of mercy, bless Nanak with the dust of Thine serf's feet. This alone is the source of peace for him.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The man makes efforts to deceive others, but that Lord, the searcher of hearts, knows everything.
He commits sins and denies their commission and wears the garb of a renouncer.
Thee, O Lord, he deems to he far away, though Thou art so near.
The greedy man looks thither, sees this and that way and committing theft, comes back. Pause.
So long as the mind's superstition is not removed, till then, there is no emancipation.
Says Nanak, he alone is a saint, and he a devoted person, on whom the Lord is merciful.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
My Guru blesses with the Name, the mortal, on whose brow good fortune is writ.
He implants the Name and the name he makes others repeat; this is his religion in this world.
In His Name lies the greatness and glory of God's slave.
The name is the salvation and the Name the honour of His serf and He accepts as good, whatever come to pass. Pause.
The man, who has the Name's wealth in his skirt, he is the perfect banker.
Nanak has the name as his occupation, the Name is his support and he earns only the name as his profit.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Mine eyes have become pure by seeing the Lord's sight and my forehead by falling on the dust of His feet.
With joy and relish, I sing the Lord's praise and the Cherisher of the world abides in my mind.
Thou, O Lord, art my merciful Protector.
Thou, the beauteous, wise and infinite Lord Master, be Thou, O Father, merciful unto me. Pause.
O the Embodiment of supreme bliss and beatitude, Thy word is exceedingly charming and the abode of Nectar.
Enshrine his feet in his mind, Nanak has tied the holy word of the True Guru to his skirt.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
By His contrivance, the Lord feeds us with sustenance and by His contrivance, He makes us play.
He blesses us with all the comforts, enjoyments and dainties and abides with our mind.
God, the Compassionate Cherisher of the universe, is my Father.
As the mother looks after her child, so nurtures me the Lord. Pause.
O my ever permanent Luminous Lord. Thou art my Friend and Associate, and the Master of all the excellences.
Here, there and every where, O Lord, Thou art contained. Bless Thou, Nanak, with the service of Thine saints.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The Kind and compassionate Lord's saints burn their lust, wrath and vice.
My royal wealth, youth, body and soul are a sacrifice unto them.
With my mind and body I love the Lord's Name.
With peace, poise, gladness and glee, the Lord has ferried me across the terrible world ocean. Pause.
Blessed it the place and blessed the house wherein dwell the saints of God.
O Lord, fulfill this desire of slave Nanak, that he may make obeisance unto Thine saints.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Attaching me to his feet, the True Guru has delivered me from the very powerful mammon.
In my mind, he has infused the spell of the one Name which perishes not, nor goes anywhere.
The perfect True Guru has given me the gift of the praise of God's Name.
He has blessed me with the singing of the praise of the Lord God's Name, and so am I emancipated. Pause.
My Lord has taken my side and has saved the honour of His devoted slave.
Nanak has grasped the feet of his Lord and had day and night, obtained peace.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
To snatch others, property, to covet to lie, to slander and acting like wise, the man passes his life.
The man deems sweet the false hope of the optical illusion and this support he enshrines in his mind.
The mammon worshipper life passes away in vain.
As the rat, gnawing dawn the load of paper, makes it useless, and it avails not the foolish rat either. Pause.
O Transcendent Lord, my Master, take pity on me and free me of these bounds.
The sinking blind mortals, O Nanak, the Lords redeems by uniting them with the society of pious persons.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Remembering and contemplating on my Lord Master, my body, soul and bosom are pacified.
The Transcendent Lord is my beauty, pleasure, peace, riches, sustenance and caste.
My tongue is inebriated with Lord's Name, home of Nectar.
It is imbued with the love of its Lord, as the Lord's lotus feet are the treasure of wealth. Pause.
He, to whom I belong, has saved me and perfect is the Lord's way of saving.
God, the Giver of peace, has Himself blended Nanak with Himself and has saved his honour.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
All the demons and adversaries are warded off by Thee, O Lord and manifest is Thy glory.
Who-so-ever annoys Thine saints, him Thou destroyest forth-with.
O God, I ever look towards Thee.
O my Friend, the enemy of pride, be Thou Thy slave's succourer and holding me by the hand, rescue me. Pause.
My Lord has heard me supplication and has afforded me His refuge.
Nanak is in bliss, his woes are dispelled, and ever, ever, he meditates on the Lord.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The Lord, has extended His might in the four directions and He has put His hand on my head.
Beholding with His eye of mercy, He has dispelled the pains of his slave.
God's serf, the Guru-God has saved.
Hugging me to His bosom, the compassionate and forgiving Lord has wiped off all my sins. Pause.
Whatever I ask of my Lord exactly that He blessed me with.
Whatever the Lord's slave Nanak utters with his mouth proves true both here and hereafter.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Aware of His innate nature, the Lord lets not His slave see the difficult hour.
Lending His hand, He preserves His own slave and cherishes him at every breath.
My mind remains attached with the Lord.
From the beginning to the end, the Lord is ever my saviour; Wonderful, is my Friend. Pause.
On beholding the marvellous greatness of the Lord, my mind is delighted.
Remembering and contemplating the Lord, Nanak makes merry. The Omnipresent Lord has preserved his honour.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
He, who forgets the Beneficent Lord of life, reckon him thou unfortunate.
He, whose mind is in love with the Lord's lotus feet, obtains the pool of Nectar.
Thy slave awakes in the love of the Lord's Name.
All sloth has departed from his body and his soul is attached to the Beloved. Pause.
Whatever I see, there, is the Pervading Lord, the string in which all the hearts are strung.
Drinking the name water, slave Nanak has forsaken all other affection.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
All the affairs of the Lord's slave are adjusted.
In the highly poisonous Darkage, the Lord has preserved his honour. Pause.
He remembers and contemplates on his Lord Master and so the Death's myrmidon draws not near him.
God's slave finds God's Home in the saints society, the Haven of emancipation.
The Lord's lotus feet are the money bag of His serf and in them he finds millions of enjoyments and comforts.
Day and night, he meditates on the Lord Master Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto him.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
I ask for one bounty from my Lord.
By meditating on Thy Name, O Lord, all my desires are fulfilled. Pause.
May Thine feet abide within my mind and may I obtain the society of saints.
May my mind be not engrossed in the fire of sorrow and may I sing Thy praises throughout the eight watches of the day.
May I serve God in my child-hood and contemplate on the Lord in the middle and end of my age.
He, who is imbued with the love of the Supreme Lord, neither enters womb, nor disappears, again.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
For all the thinks I beg of the Lord.
To beg of man, I fell ashamed. By Lord's meditation salvation is obtained. Pause.
I have read with care the Simirtis and Puranas uttered by the silent sages and scrutinized the Vedas, all of which proclaim:-
By serving Lord, the Ocean of compassion, truth is attained and the mortal's both the world are embellished.
All other rituals and affairs are useless without the Lord's meditation.
Meeting the saints Guru, O Nanak, the sorrow is effaced and the fear of birth and death is removed.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The increased sensual desire is stilled with the Lord's Name.
Through the Gurbani, great contentment wells up and one's attention is perfectly attuned to the Lord. Pause.
O Lord, merciful to the meek take pity on me, that I may ignore the supreme wonders of mammon.
O Lord, make Thy slave's arduous toil fruitful and bless him with Thy Name, by remembering which, he sustains his life.
Uttering the Name and singing the praise of the Lord, man obtains dominions, comforts, enjoyments and eternal bliss and all his wishes are fulfilled.
Nanak, the Lord's slave, whose destiny is so pre-writ by8 the Creator, has his tasks accomplished.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
The Transcendent Lord takes care of His serf.
The slanderers are not permitted to stay, they are rooted out as useless. Pause.
Wherever I see, find my Lord there and none can equal me. Who-so-ever shows disrespect to God's slave, he is forthwith reduced to ashes.
Who-s0-ever disrespect to God's slave, he is forthwith reduced to ashes.
The Creator, whose limit or this and that end cannot be fathomed, has become his Protector.
Nanak, the Lord has saved His slaves and has beaten off their slanderers.
Dhanasri 5th Guru. Partal.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
O God, the Lord of the world and the Destroyer of pain, I seek the refuge of Thine feet. Bless Thou me, Thy self, with Thine Name.
O Lord, show mercy unto me; save me by Thine grace and taking me by the arm, pull me out of the well. Pause.
The man is blinded by lust and wrath, he is fettered by worldly attachments and his body and its clothes are full of many sins.
Without the Lord, no one else is the man's protection. O accomplished protecting Warrior; make me utter Thine Name.
O Lord, the Purifier of sinners and the Saviour of big and small creatures, even the expounders of Vedas have not found Thy limit.
My Lord is an ocean of virtues and peace and the mine of jewels Nanak sings the praise of the Lover of His devoted servants.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Peace in this world, peace in the next one and peace for aye is obtained through God's meditation. Ever utter thou the Name of the Lord.
Meeting the society of the saints, the sins committed in remote past are washed of and the new life is infused in the dead. Pause.
In power, youth and riches the Lord is forgotten, This is the supreme calamity, so say the pious persons.
The longing and thirst for uttering and singing God's praise, are the riches with which only the fortunate ones are blessed.
O Ineffable and Incomprehensible Lord, accomplished to give refuge, Thy Name is the purifier of the sinners.
The knower of hearts Lord of Nanak is fully pervading every where.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
I make obeisance, obeisance unto my God. Sing I the praise of the Sovereign Lord, the World cherisher. Pause.
By the great good fortune, one meets with the Divine Guru.
Millions of sins are erased by the Lord's service.
Who's mind is attached with the Lord's lotus feet,
him, the fire of sorrow clings not.
The world ocean, he crosses joining the society of saints.
Imbued with His love, he remember the Name of the Fearless Lord.
Who takes not others wealth nor commits any evil deeds and sins,
death's courier, the enemy of life, draws, not near him.
The Lord Himself quenches his fire of desires.
Taking to the Lord's refuge, O Nanak, the mortal is delivered.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Partaking the fare of truth, I am satiated.
With my soul, body and tongue I repeat the Lord's Name.
The life, the divine life,
the true life consists in remembering God in the society of saints. Pause.
The man is deemed to wear the robes of various sorts,
if he, night and day, sings the Lord's praise and merits.
When within his mind, one beholds the Lord's path,
the mortal is deemed to ride the elephants, chariots and horses..
Contemplating on the Lord's feet in his mind and body,
servant Nanak has obtained God, the Treasure of peace.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
Guru's feet emancipate the soul.
In a moment they take it across the world ocean. Pause.
Some are in love with ceremonial rites and some bathe, at place of pilgrimage.
God's servants ponder over His Name.
The Lord is the shatterer of shackles.
Serf Nanak meditates on Lord, the Inner-knower.
Dhanasri 5th Guru.
O Lord, so immaculate should be the way of life of Thy slave,
that by no means his love for Thee may sunder. Pause.
The Lord is dearer to me then my soul, life, heart and wealth.
God alone is the setter of obstacle in the way egotism.
May I be in love with the Lord's lotus feet.
This alone is the Nanak, supplication, O Lord.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Dhanasri 9th Guru.
Why goest thou, O man, to search God in the forest?
Ever detached God dwells everywhere and abides even with thee. Pause.
As fragrance abides in the flower and as reflection in the mirror,
so does God sell within thee and search thou Him within thy heart, O brother.
Within and without, know that there is but One Lord. This is the understanding the Guru's has imparted unto me.
Without knowing one's self O slave Nanak, the moss (filth) of doubt is removed not.
Dhanasri 9th Guru.
O saints, this world is gone astray in doubt.
It has forsaken the meditation of the Lord's Name and has sold itself to worldly attachments. Pause.
The mother, father, brother, son and wife, in their love, the man is engrossed.
Day and night, he remains intoxicated in the pride of his youth, wealth and glory.
The Master who is merciful to the meek and ever is the Destroyer of pain, with Him, he attaches not his mind.
Amongst millions, O slave Nanak, rare is the one who recognizes the Lord, through the Guru.
Dhanasri 9th Guru.
That Yogi knows not the way of the Lord.
Within whose mind thou recognizest avarice, worldly attachment, desire for riches and also my-ness. Pause.
He, to whom gold and iron are alike, slanders or praises not others,
and who is also free from joy and sorrow, call him thou, a true Yogi.
The restless mind wanders in ten directions; it needs to be pacified and stabilized;
Whosoever knows this art deem him thou to be emancipated, says Nanak.
Dhanasri 9th Guru.
What effort should I make, now.
Be the help of which my mental anxiety may be ended, and I may cross the terrible ocean? Pause.
Obtaining human life, I have done nothing good, wherefore I fear a great deal.
In though, word and deed, I have not sung God's praise, This anxiety haunts my mind.
Despite hearing Guru's instruction, no Divine knowledge has welled up in me. I fall my belly like a beast.
Says Nanak, O Lord, uphold Thy creed of forgiveness; it is then alone that I, am sinner, can be saved.
Dhanasri 1st Guru. Ashtapadis.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
The Guru is an ocean, full of pearls.
The saint swans pick up ambrosial pearls and go not away from there.
They partake of the fare of God's elixir and are liked by the Lord.
Within the (world) ocean the sans meet the Lord of their soul.
what avails the poor crane to bathe at the puddle?
It sinks in the mire and its filth goes not. Pause.
The thoughtful man takes a step after a careful consideration.
Forsaking duality, he becomes the worshipper of the one Formless Lord.
He obtains the wealth of salvation and enjoys the Lord's elixir.
His comings and goings end, and the Guru protects him.
Abandoning the ocean, the swan goes no where else.
Embracing devotional service, he merge in the supreme Lord.
In the Guru ocean is the sikh swan and within the sikh swan is the Guru ocean.
The sikh utters the Ineffable Lord In the primal sits a Yogi our Lord.
In the primal state sits a Yogi, our Lord.
He being neither a female, nor a male, how can anyone describe it?
The three worlds continue fixing their attention on His Light.
The God's men and the sublime Yogis seek the True Lord's refuge.
The Lord is the source of bliss and the support of the patronless.
The guruwards engage in Lord's worship and meditation.
God is the Lover of His saints and the Destroyer of dread.
Effacing hie ego, man meets the Lord and places his step on His way.
The man makes various efforts, but death tortures him.
Destined to die, the man comes into the world.
The invaluable human life, he loses in duality.
He understands not his-self and bewails owing to excessive doubt.
The saint tells, reads and hears of the One Lord.
The Lord, the support of the earth, blesses him with fortitude righteousness and protection.
In who's mind are enshrined chastity, righteousness and self-control,
that mortal in attuned to the fourth state of mind,.
Immaculate are the true persons and no filth attaches to them.
By Guru's word, their doubt and dread depart.
The from and personality of the Primal Lord are supremely beauteous.
Nanak asks for the Lord, who is the Embodiment of Truth.
Dhanasri 1st Guru.
Acceptable is the union of him, who meets the Lord, through equipoise.
He dies not nor suffers he transmigration.
In the Lord is His slave and in the slave is He, the Lord.
Wherever I look, there I see not any other.
Through the Guru, one attains to the Lord's loved worship and mansion.
Without meeting the Guru, one suffers transmigration after death. Pause.
Adopt thou such a Guru, who may implant truth in thee,
make thee utter the Ineffable Lord and unite thee with the Name.
The men of God's have no other task to do.
They love only the True Lord and truth.
The mind is in the body and in the mind is the True One.
Meeting with the True One, the mortal is absorbed in Him, the True One.
The Lord's slave repairs to the Lord's feet.
If man meets the Perfect True Guru, he makes the Perfect True Guru, he makes him meet with the True Lord.
The Lord Himself sees and Himself makes men see.
By obstinacy, He is pleased not, nor by many religious garbs.
He who has fashioned the vessels and poured the Nectar within them,
that Lord mind is pleased only with the loving-worship.
By reading and reading, man forgets the Name and suffers punishment.
Through his excessive cleverness, he continues coming and going.
He, who utters the Name and eats the fare of God's fear,
becomes a pious slave and remains absorbed in the Lord.
The man worship stone, abides in holy places and jungles,
wanders, wavers and becomes a renouncer.
But with the filthy mind, how can he become pure?
He, who meets the true Lord, obtains honour.
He who is the embodiment of pious deeds and meditation,
his soul abides in celestial bliss and contentedness till eternity.
He, who in the twinkling of an eye, saves millions,
O my Beloved, mercifully make me meet such a Guru.
Before whom, O Lord should I praise Thee?
Save Thee, there is no another for me.
As it pleases Thee, so keep me Thou in Thy will.
Nanak instinctively, sings Thine praise.
Dhanasri 5th Guru. Ashtpadi.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Through good fortune the human birth is obtained, but who-so-ever comes into life, that very one is entangled in the world.
I look to thine refuge, O the Saint Guru, save me by extending thy hand and mercifully unite me with God, the King.
I have wandered thorough various births, but have not found stability anywhere.
I serve my Guru, fall at his feet and say "Pray, show me the way of my sire World-Lord". Pause.
I make many efforts to acquire wealth, cherish it in my mind and pass my life ever crying "This is mine, this is mine".
Is there any such saint, who may meet, me, shake of all my anxiety and make me enshrine love for my Lord.
I have read all the Vedas, but my mind's separation from God is removed not and the five demons of my house are stilled not even for an instant.
Is there any such devotee, who is detached from the worldly attachments and who may irrigate my mind with the one Nectar-Name.
As many places of pilgrimage, the man bathes at, so much more the dirt of mental ego he gathers and the Lord of the mind is pleases not even a bit.
When shall I obtain the society of the saints, in which I shall ever enjoy the Lord God's bliss? My soul shall bathe therein and I shall attain the eye-slave of gnosis.
I have practised all the four stages of life and my body, devoid of divine knowledge, I have washed as well, but my mind is pleases not.
May I meet some such saint of the Lord Creator, who is imbued with the supreme Lord's love. He shall eradicate the filth of the mal-intellect of my mind.
The man, who is attached to the ritualistic creeds, loves not his Lord even for an instant and is puffed up with excessive ego, is of no account.
He, who meets, with the accredited personality of the Guru, ever sings the Lord praise. By Guru's grace, some rare one sees the Lord with his eyes.
The mammon worshipper, who acts through his mind's obstinacy and fixes his attention like a crane, is not in account even a bit.
Is there any bestower of peace, who may recite to me the Gospel of God? Meeting him, I shall be emancipated.
When God, the King, is supremely pleased with me, He breaks my bounds of mammon and then my soul is imbued with the Guru's hymns.
Meeting my Fearless Lord, I am ever, ever in bliss. Falling at the God's feet Nanak has found eternal peace.
Fruitful, fruitful, fruitful, has become my life pilgrimage.
Meeting with the Saint-Guru, my comings and goings have ended. Pause 2nd.
Dhanasri 1st Guru, Chhant.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Why should I go the bathe at the place of pilgrimage? God's name is the real of pilgrimage.
My pilgrim stations are the Name's meditation and the inner divine knowledge.
The Guru-given gnosis is the true place of pilgrimage where the ten festivals are ever obviously celebrated.
I ever beg for God's Name Grant me this boon, O Lord, the World, Sustainer.
The World is ill, the Name, is the cure-all, Without the True Lord, the filth of sin attaches to it.
The Guru's word is immaculate and it ever bestows light. Always bathe thou in such a true place of pilgrimage.
Filth attaches not to the true What filth have they to wash off?
If one twines the garland of virtues for one self, what for then one has to bewail?
He, who by meditation, slays his self, is saved and saves others and he enters not existences again.
The Supreme contemplator is himself the philosopher's stone The true are pleasing to the True Lord.
Night and day, he feels happiness and true joy and his sorrow and sins depart.
He attains the True Name and beholds God, through the Guru. No impurity attaches to him, as the True Name abides in his mind.
O friend, association with the saints congregation is the perfect ablution.
The singer, who sings the Lord's praise is embellished with His Name.
Believe in the True Guru, praise thou the true Lord, in this is contained the merit of giving of alms and charity and the compassionate nature.
The truest of the true, who loves the society of her Beloved Lord, is deemed to bathe at the Trivani the confluence of Ganga Jamna and Saraswati.
Meditate thou on One True Lord, who ever, gives and whose gifts ever increase.
O friend, salvation, is obtained by associating with the society of saints, Showing His mercy, the Lord unites man in His union.
All utter the Lord's discourse. How great should I say, He is?
I am unwise, low and ignorant and it is through the Guru's instruction that I understand Him.
True is the teaching of the Guru, whose worlds are Nectar like, With them my mind is pleased.
Laden with sin, men depart and then return. The True Lord is obtained through my Guru.
There is no end to narration of the Lord's glory and the treasure of His devotion He is fully pervading everywhere.
Nanak makes a true supplication, He, who cleanses his heart becomes truthful.
Dhanasri 1st Guru.
I live by Thine Name and my mind is in bliss, O Lord.
True is the Name and the praise of the True Lord.
Infinite is the gnosis of the Guru. The Creator, who creates the world, He also destroys it.
When death's call, sent, by the Lord's command, is received, none can challenge it.
He Himself creates the world and takes ears of it. Over all the heads is His writ and He Himself impart understanding.
Nanak, unreachable and unfathomable is the Lord and I live by His True Name.
None else equals Thee, O Lord, all others continue coming and going.
By Thine command the account is settled and the doubt is dispelled.
The Guru dispels the doubt and makes man utter the Ineffable Lord. In truth the true one is absorbed.
He Himself creates and Himself destroys. I realise the command of the Commander.
True greatness is obtained through the Guru. Thou alone, O Lord, art the soul's succourer in the end.
There is no other besides Thee, O Lord. Through Thy Name, alone, glory is obtained.
Thou art the True Creator and the unknowable Maker.
There is but One Lord. Spiritualism and materialism are the two ways be which the strifes multiply.
By His will, the Lord makes all walk in these two ways. The world is subject to birth and death.
Without the Name, the mortal has no friend. In vain he carries the load of sins on his head.
In the Lord's will comes the man but His will he understands not. His will alone is the man's embellish.
Nanak, through the Name, the True Creator Lord is recognised.
Embellished with Thy Name, O Lord, Thine saints look beauteous in Thy court.
They recite the ambrosial Gurbani and their tongue they sweeten therewith.
Sweet if their tongue they thirst for the Name and are a sacrifice unto the Guru's word.
When they become pleasing to Thy mind, O Lord, they themselves become. Philosopher's stone by Coming in contact with the philosopher's stone.
They will their ego, and attain to the immortal status but rare is the person, who reflects on this Divine knowledge.
Nanak, the saints, who are the dealers of the True Name, look beauteous at the True Gate.
I hunger and thirst for worldly valuables. How can I then go to the Lord's court?
I shall go and consult the true Guru and shall deliberate over the Lord's Name.
I remember the True Name, utter the True Name and, through the Guru, know the True Name.
Night and day, I utter the Name of the Beneficent, Immaculate Lord, the Master of the meek.
This task, the Primal Being has enjoined man to do, In this way the ego is stilled and the mind is subdued.
Nanak, supremely sweet is the Name-Nectar and it is through the Name, that the desire is stilled.
Dhanasri 1st Guru.
O beguiled bride, thy Beloved is with thee, but thou hast no knowledge of it.
According to thine past deeds, the destiny is writ on thy forehead.
The writ of the past deeds cannot be erased. What do I know as to what shall befall me?
Thou hast not adopted the virtuous way of life, nor art thou imbued with thy Lord's love, thou shalt ever sit and bewail over thine misdeeds.
Thine riches and youth are like shade of swallowort. Growing old, thine days shall come to an end.
Without the Name, thou shalt be a discarded, divorced bride. Thy falsehood shall separate thee from the Lord.
O bride Thou, art drowned. Thy home is ruined. Walk thou in Guru's will.
Meditate thou on the True Name and thou shalt obtain peace in the Lord's mansion.
If thou rememberest the Lord's Name, then shalt thou attain bliss. Thy stay in this world is but for four days.
She, who night and day, abides with her Beloved, obtains truth and goes and sits in her own Home.
Without the love-worship, one abides not in one's Home. Hearken O ye all men.
Nanak, if she is imbued with the True Name, then is she rendered happy and obtains her Spouse.
If the bride become pleasing to her groom, then alone the groom love her bride.
Imbued with her beloved's love, she reflects over the Guru's hymns.
Reflects she on the Gurbani and her Spouse loves her and in all humility she embrace His devotional service.
She burns her worldly love and in love enjoys her Beloved.
She is imbued with the love of the True Lord, conquers her mind and becomes beauteous.
Nanak, the happy bride abides in truth and bears sweet love to her Beloved.
The bride looks beauteous in her Groom's Home if she becomes pleasing to her Groom.
The utterance of false words is of no avail.
If she utters falsehood, it is of no avail to her and she sees not her Spouse with her eyes.
Meritless, forgotten and divorced by her Spouse, she passes the night of her life without her Master.
Such a wife believes not in the Guru's word, is caught in the worldly net and obtains not her Lord's mansion.
Nanak, if she understands her ownself, then, by the Guru's grace, she merges in the celestial peace.
Blessed is the fortunate bride who recognises her dear Spouse.
Without the Name, she is false and does false deeds.
Beauteous is the God's love, which the True Lord loves, so one should get absorbed in the Lord's love adoration.
Playful and youthful is my Beloved Imbued with His love, the bride enjoys Him.
She flowers through the Guru's hymns, enjoys her Spouse and obtains the merited Fruit.
Nanak, through truth, the bride attains, glory and looks beautiful in her Husband's Home.
Dhanasri 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
If the venerable Lord extends His mercy, then alone contemplates one on His Name.
Meeting the True Guru through sublime faith, one easily sings the Lord's praise.
When the True Lord Himself so pleases, the mortal flourishes by ever singing Lord's praise night and day.
He forsakes ego, self-conceit and mammon and is easily absorbed in the Name.
He, the Creator, Himself does everything and when He Himself blesses us, then alone, do we receive.
When the reverend God Shows mercy, then alone, meditate we on His Name.
Within my mind is he true love of the Perfect True Guru.
Him, I serve day and night and I forget Him not ever.
I never forget the Lord and night and day, remember Him, When I cherish Him, then alone do I live.
With mine ears, I hear of the Guru and my soul is satiated. By Guru's grace, I quaff the name Nectar.
If the Lord extends His mercy, then would I meet the True Guru and my discriminating mind would reflect on the name, night and day.
Within me, is the True love of the perfect True Guru.
If, by great good fortune, the mortal obtains the society of saints, then is he blessed with the Lord's ambrosia.
Night, and day, he remains absorbed in the Lord's love and then he attains a state of Equipoise.
When he merges in equipoise, then becomes he, pleasing to the God's mind and ever remains uncontaminated and detached.
Embracing affection for the Lord's Name, he obtains honour in this world, the world hereafter and the whole, universe.
Both from weal and woe, he remains immune and whatever the Lord does, with that he is pleased.
By good luck the society of saints is obtained and then one enjoys the God's elixir.
Pain results from another's love and the Death's courier spies the perverse person.
Stung by the pain of worldly love, he bewails day and night.
Fascinated by the agonizing worldly valuable, he becomes wrathful in pride and his life passes saying "it is mine, it is mine".
He remembers not the Lord, who gives him gifts, and depart regretting in the end.
Without the Name, nothing goes with the mortal. The sons, wife and wealth have hoodwinked him.
In duality, an apostate suffers pain and the death's courier keeps an eye on him.
Taking pity on me, the Lord Guru has united me with Himself and I have obtained His presence.
With joined hands, I ever remain standing in the Lord's presence and have thus become pleasing to His mind.
When man becomes pleasing to the Lord's mind, then merges he in His Will. and accepting the Lord's command, he obtains peace.
Night and day, them he ever remember the Lord and effortlessly repeats the Name.
It is through only the name, that Name and glory are obtained The Lord's Name is pleasing to Nanak's mind.
O God, mercifully unite me with Thyself and bless me with Thine presence.
Dhanasri 5th Guru Chhant.
There is but One God. By True Guru's is He obtained.
Merciful to the meek is my True Guru, in whose company God's praise is sung.
The Nectar Name of the Lord is uttered in the society of saints.
By remembering and contemplating on the One Lord in the saints society, the agony of birth and death is removed.
They, for whom good destiny is writ from the very beginning, learn the truth and their noose of death is loosed.
Their dread and doubt are dispelled, the mammon's knot it united and they never walk the way of death.
Prays Nanak, have mercy on me, O Lord, that I may ever sing Thy praise.
The one Immaculate Name is the support of the supportless.
O Beneficent Lord, Thou art ever the Giver and the Dispeller of all sorrow.
O Creator, the Destroyer of pain and the Lord of bliss, who-so-ever seeks the saints refuge,
him, Thou enablest to cross the most arduous world ocean in am instant.
When I applied the slave of Guru's gnosis to my eyes, I saw the Lord fully contained everywhere.
Supplicates Nanak, ever meditate I, on Him, who is the Destroyer of all pains and fears.
By showing His mercy, the Lord has attached me to His skirt.
I am meritless, low and destitute and the Lord is Inaccessible and Infinite.
Ever merciful and compassionate is my Lord, He is the Establisher of the low.
All the creatures are in Thy power, O Lord and Thou takest care of all.
The Lord Himself is the Creator, Himself the Enjoyer and Himself the Deliberator of everything.
Nanak prays that he may live by singing the praise of God and repeating the Name of the Lord of woods.
Peerless, is Thine sight and priceless is Thine Name, O my Lord.
Thine slaves, ever think of Thee, O my unweighable Master.
By Thine pleasure, Thou abidest on the saints tongue and they are intoxicated with Thy elixir, O Lord.
The supremely fortunate, repeat to the Guru's feet and, night and day, they ever remain wakeful.
Ever and ever, meditate thou on the Lord, who is worthy of meditation, and with thy every breath, utter thou His praise.
Supplicates Nanak, invaluable is the Lord's Name and he is the dust of the saints feet.
Rag Dhanasri Hymns of reverend Saints Kabir.
There is but One God. By True Guru's favour is He obtained.
Personalities like Sanak, Snand, Shive and Sheshnag,
know not Thy secret, O Lord.
Though association with saints the Omnipresent Lord abides in the mind.
Personalities like Human, beings, like Garar,
Indar the Lord of gods and Brahma the Lord of men, know not Thine excellences, O Master.
The four Vedas, twenty-seven Simirits, eighteen Puranas,
the Lord of Lakhshmi (Vishnu) and Lakhsmi, understands not the Lord.
Says Kabir, that person wanders not in existence,
who touches Lord's feet and remains under His protection.
Day and day and watch by watch, the life draws to a close and the body withers away.
Death is walking around like a hunter and a butcher. Stay, what way should man adopt to escape.
That last day is fast approaching,
of mother, father, brother, son and wife, say, who belongs to whom. Pause.
So long as the light of life remains in the body, the beastly man understands not his ownself.
He is greedy to maintain his life status and sees nothing with his eyes.
Says Kabir, here O mortal, shed thou thy mental doubts.
Contemplate thou only on the one Name, O mortal, and seek but the One Lord's asylum.
What surprise is there for the man, who knows even something of the love and meditation of God?
As water falling in water, separates not again, so the so the weaver, softening down, has blended with the Lord.
O men of God, I am mentally a simpleton.
If Kabir abandons His body at Banaras, What obligation owes he to God according to the Hindu belief he is emancipated of his own)? Pause.
Says Kabir, hear, O people, let no one go astray under any illusion.
What difference is there between Banaras and barren Maghar, if the Pervading God be within the mind?
Though men happen to go to Indra's realm and the realm of Shiva,
yet because of their false prayers they come out again.
What should I ask for? Nothing is lasting.
Enshrine thou, the Lord's Name within thy mind. Pause.
Renown, Kingdom, wealth and greatness,
do not stand by any body or help him in the end.
The sons, wife, riches and property,
from these, say, who has ever obtained peace?
Says Kabir, nothing else is of any avail,
within my mind is the wealth of the Lord's Name.
Remember thy Lord, remember thy Lord, remember thy Lord, O my brother.
Without remembering the Lord's Name, good many are drowned. Pause.
Wife, sons, body, house, and wealth, thou deemest peace-givers.
Nothing from amongst these shall be thine, when the time death arrives.
Ajamal, the elephant and courtesan, committed sinful deeds.
They crossed the world ocean by uttering the Lord's Name.
O mortal thou hast wandered in the existences of pigs and dogs any yet thou feelest not ashamed.
Forsaking the ambrosia of the Lord's Name why eatest thou the poison?
Abandoning the doubt regarding the prescribed and forbidden acts take thou the Lord's Name.
Says, slave Kabir, "By Guru's grace, love thou thy Lord alone".
Dhanasri. Hymns of reverend saint Nam Dev.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Man digs deep foundations and builds palaces thereon.
If there anyone longer-lived than Markands (a sage) who put grass blades on his head and passed his days?
The Creator Lord alone is my Friend.
O man, why takest thou pride? This perishable body of thine shall be destroyed. Pause.
The Kairavs who had brothers like Duryodhan used to say "Everything is ours, ours".
Their royal procession extended over sixty miles, yet the vultures devoured their bodies. (N.B. One jojan is equal to five miles.)
Ceylon was all gold, Was any one greater than Rawan?
What did it matte, if he had elephants tethered at his gate? Ina moment, Ceylon became the property of others.
The Yadvas practised deception on Durbasa and reaped its fruit.
The Lord has shows mercy to His slave and name Dev sings His praise.
If have controlled the ten sense organs and the very Name of the five evil passions, I have erased.
I have filled seventy and have dispelled the poison of evil deeds.
I shall not allow the evil deeds to return again.
The ambrosial word I utter from the depth of my heart and I instruct, my soul; accordingly. Pause.
I have destroyed worldly love with an adamantine axe. I implore the Guru and repair of his feet.
Turning away from the world, I have become the saints servant and I fear the Lord's slaves.
Then alone shall I be released from this world, when I cling not to worldly attachments.
Mammon is the name of the power which causes man to take birth through womb. Abandoning that, I obtain the Lord's sight.
The man, who in this way performs the Lord's service, he is rid of all fear.
Says Name Dev, why wander thou abroad, O man when the Lord is obtained in this way.
As water is dear in sandy deserts and the creeper is dear to the camel,
and as the tune of hunter's bell's at night, is dear to the deer, so is the Pervading God to my soul.
Thy Name is beautiful, Thy form is beautiful and very beautiful is Thine love, O my Omnipresent Lord.
As rain is dear to the earth and as the fragrance of flowers is to the black-bee,
and as the mango is dear to the cuckoo, so is the Lord to my mind.
As the sum is dear to the sheldrake and the lake of Man-Sarowar to the Swan,
and as the husband is dear to the wife, so is God to my soul.
As milk is dear to the baby as the torrent of rain to the mouth of the sparrow hawk,
and as water is dear to the fish, so is the Lord to my soul.
All the penitents, adepts and silent sages seek God, but only a few behold His vision.
As Thy Name is dear to all the universe, so is the Omnipresent Lord to the Nama's soul.
First of all, bloomed the lotuses in the woods,
from it came into being all the creatures and the swans.
Know, that only through God, the Lord Master the creation is dancing (came into existence).
First Primal Being becomes manifest.
From that Primal Being issued forth mammon.
Everything is of that Lord.
In this garden of God, the mortals dance like the water in the ports. Pause.
The women and men dance alike.
Without the Master, there is not another.
Level thou no criticism against it,
as this criticism is born of doubt alone.
The Lord says, "This world and I are but one and the same".
The mortals of the world are like, sometimes high and sometimes low, pots of the Persian wheel.
Wandering and roaming about, I have come to thy door, O Lord.
The Lord: "O who art thou?"
Namdev: "Sir! I am Namdev (Nama)". O Lord!
Save me from mammon which is the cause of death.
O Lord of wealth, purification of sinners is Thy innate nature.
Hail to those silent sages and slaves, who meditate on my Lord God.
To my forehead is attached the dust of the feet of the Master of the universe.
The demigods, ordinary men, and the silent saints, from them, this boon is afar. Pause
O Lord, compassionate to the poor and the destroyer of pride,
Nama seeks the asylum of Thine feet and is a sacrifice unto Thee.
Dhanasri. Reverend Saint Ravi Dass.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
There is none so poor as me and none so compassionate as Thou, O Lord What further test, now, is to do done?
Bless me, Thy slave, with this perfection, that my soul may obey Thine words.
I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto Thee, O my Omnipresent Lord.
For what reason art Thou silent? Pause.
For many births, have I been separated from Thee, O Lord. This life, I now dedicate unto Thee.
Says Ravi Dass, pinning my hope in Thee, I live, It is long since I has seen Thy vision.
I remember Thee, O Lord, in my heart, with mine eyes I behold Thee and I fill my mind's ears with Thy hymns and sublime praise.
I make my mind the honey-bee, I place Thine feet into my heart and with my tongue, I utter Thy Nectar-Name, O Lord.
May my love for the World-Lord decrease not.
I have bought it dear in exchange for my soul. Pause.
Without the society of saints, Lord's love wells up not and, without love, Thy service cannot be performed.
Ravi Dass makes one supplication before God: Preserve Thou, my honour, O Sovereign Lord.
Thy Name, O Lord, is my adoration in audience and ablution.
Without the Lord's Name, all the ostentations are in vain. Pause.
Thy name is my prayer mat, Thy name, my stone scraper and Thy name the saffron, which I take and sprinkle for Thee.
Thy name is the water and Thy Name and sandal. The repetition of Thy Name is the grating of sandal. Taking the Name I offer it unto Thee.
Thy Name is the Lamp and Thy Name the wick Taking the oil of Thy name, I pour it therein.
Thy Name is the light, which I have applied to the lamp and it has enlightened the whole world.
Thy Name is the thread and Thy Name the garland of flowers All the eighteen loads of vegetation are too impure to be offered to Thee.
Why should I offered Thee, What Thou Thyself hast made? Thy Name is the fly-brush, which I wave over Thee.
The whole world is engrossed in the eighteen Puranas, sixty-eight shrines and the four sources of creation.
Says Rav-Dass, Thy name alone is my present worship. The True Name is the food which I offer Thee, O Lord.
Dhanasri Saints hymns. Trilochan.
There is but One God. By True Guru grace is He obtained.
Why slanderest Thou the Lord, O erring and ignorant woman?
Thy pain and pleasure are according to thine acts. Pause.
Though the moon abides at Shiva's forehead and ever bathes in Gangas.
Thou amongst the men of the moon's family Krishan was born,
yet the stigma due to his misdeeds is not effaced, from his face.
Arun, the Charioteer, Whose master, is the sun, the lamp of the world, and whose brother is the king of garar-birds,
is yet a cripple on account of his evil-actions.
Shiva, the destroyer of many sins and the Master of three worlds, wandered from shrine to shrine, yet he ever found the end of them.
The sinful act of the cutting of Brahms's head, he could not efface.
Through the Nectar, the moon, the elysian cow, Lakshmi, the miraculous tree, the sun's steed and the very shrewd physician, Dhanantar, arose from the ocean,
the Lord of the rivers, yet on account of its deeds, its saltiness departs not.
Though Hanuman burnt the fortress of Lanka, uprooted the garden of Ravan, brought the wound healing herb for the wounds of Lachhman and pleased ram Chandar,
due to his acts he could not get rid of his loin-cloth.
The effect of deeds committed in the past cannot be effaced, O the wife of my house, Therefore I repeat the Name of the Lord.
So says Tirlochan, O my Reverend Lord.
Venerable Sain.
I offer adoration prayers with incense, lamps and clarified butter.
I am a sacrifice unto the Lord of Lakhshmi.
Hail, to Thee, O God, hail;
Eternal bliss is thine, O my Sovereign Lord, the Emperor. Pause.
The sublime lamp and pure wick art Thou,
O Bright Lord of wealth.
The Lord's meditation, Rama Nand, my Guru knows.
He describes the Lord as Omnipresent and the Embodiment of Supreme joy.
The World Master of fascinating form has ferried me across the terrible world ocean.
Says, Sain, "Remember thou, God, the Embodiment of Supreme joy".
Pipa.
In the body, the Lord is present. The body is His temple, In the body is the place of pilgrimage, of which I am pilgrim.
In the body are incense, earthen lamps and oblation, in the body is the leaf offering.
I have searched many regions and it is only in the body that I have found the nine treasures.
Since I have invoked the mercy of Lord, there is no coming and no going. Pause.
He, who is in the universe, that also abides in the body and whoever seeks, he finds Him there.
Prays Pipa, "The Lord is the supreme quintessence of all. When there is the True Guru, he revealeth His unto us".
Dhanna.
O Lord, I perform Thine devotional worship.
Thou arrangest the affairs of those persons who perform Thine devotional service. Pause.
I beg of Thee flour and ghee,
so shall my mind be ever pleased.
The foot-wear, good clothes,
and corn of seven sorts, I beg of Thee.
The milch-cow and buffalo I ask for,
and also a good Turkistani mare.
I ask for a good wife to look after my home.
Thy slave Dhanna, O Lord, begs Thee to procure them.
Jaitsari 4th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
In my mind is enshrined the jewel of God's Name, and the Guru has placed his hand on my brow.
My sins and suffering of many births are washed off. The Guru has blessed me with the Name and my debt is paid off.
O my soul, remember thou the Lord's Name and thine affairs shall all be resolved.
The Perfect Guru has implanted the God's Name, in me Vain is the life without the name. Pause.
Without the Guru, the apostates are stark ignorant and they are ever ensnared in the love of riches.
They serve not the saints feet ever and useless is their entire life.
They, who serve the saints, feet, yea saints feet, fruitful is their life and they belong to the Lord.
O Lord of world, show mercy unto me and make me the slave of the slave of Thine slaves.
I am blind, ignorant and without gnosis. How can I tread Thine path and way.
O Guru, let me, the blind one, hold thy skirt, so that slave Nanak may walk in harmony with thee.
Jaitsri 4th Guru.
A jewel and a diamond, howsoever invaluable and heavy, is equal to a blade of grass without a purchaser.
When the saintly Guru, the purchaser of the jewel, saw it, he bought the jewel for lakhs of rupees, then.
The jewel the Lord has kept concealed within my mind.
The Lord, compassionate to the poor, has make me meet the holy Guru and by meeting with the Guru I have assayed the jewel. Pause.
In the cabin of the apostates is the darkness of ignorance and in their home the diamond is not seen.
Those fools die wandering in wilderness and taste the poison of the serpent mammon.
My Lord God, make me meet Thine saints, the good men. O God, keep me under Thine saints protection.
O God, the Lord Master, adopt me as Thy own, as I have run over to Thine side.
What excellences of Thine can my tongue narrate recount? Thou art great inaccessible and the exalted Being.
God has shown mercy unto slave Nanak and He has saved the sinking stone.
Jaitsri 4th Guru.
I am Thy stupid, stilly and unwise child and know nothing of Thine state and worth.
O Lord, show mercy unto me, bless me with sublime understanding and make me, stupid one, wise.
My mind is lazy and drowsy.
My Lord God has make me meet the saintly Guru and meeting the saint Guru, the shutters of my mind have been opened. Pause.
O Guru, every moment, inspire my heart with the Lord's love and make the Lord's Name dear to me like me very life.
Without the name of my Lord, I should die. It is to me what an intoxicant is to an addict, who craves for it.
They, who enshrine the love of God in their mind, their preordained destiny is fulfilled.
Every moment, I worship the feet of those, to whom the Lord seems sweet.
My Lord God, the Master has taken pity on His slave, whom, after long separation, He has united with Himself.
Blest, blest is the True Guru, who has established the name within me. Slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto him.
Jaitsri 4th Guru.
I have obtained True Guru, the great man, my friend, and this union has fruitioned into the Lord's love and affection.
The mammon serpent has seized the mortal, Through the Guru's hymns, the Lord neutralizes the poison.
My soul is attached to the Nectar of the Lord's Name.
Uniting with the saint Guru, God has purified the sinner and they now taste the God's Name and God's elixir. Pause.
Blessed, blessed is the great destiny of those who meet the saint Guru Meeting with the saint Guru, they imbibe love for the most exalted state.
Their fire of desire is quenched, they obtain peace and sing the immaculate, immaculate praise of God.
Ill fate, from the very beginning, are they, who obtain not the vision of the True Guru.
Due to duality, they go round into the womb existences, and their whole life passes away in vain.
O God, bless me with immaculate understanding, that I may serve the feet of the saint Guru and Thou, O God, may seem sweet unto me.
Serf Nanak, asks for the dust of the saint Guru's feet and the Lord, out of mercy, shall bless me with it.
Jaitsari 4th Guru.
O Lord master, the mothers of those, within whose mind, the name abides not, ought to have been sterile.
Their forlorn bodies wander about without the Name and they waste their lives and die-crying.
O my soul repeat thou the Name of the Lord God, who is within thee.
Lord God, the merciful Master, has shown me mercy. The Guru has given me the Divine knowledge and my mind is chastened. Pause.
In the Darkage, the praise of God holds the highest place and God is obtained through the True Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto my true Guru, who has make manifest to me the Lord's hidden Name.
By great good fortune, the vision of the holy man in obtained. it removes and washes off all the sins.
I have the True Guru, who is the all-wise king and he has made me share the Lord's many merits.
They, to whom, Lord, the life of the world, shows mercy enshrine Him in their heat and place Him in their mind.
The Righteous Judge in his court has torn up my papers and slave Nanak has settled his account.
Jaitsri 4th Guru.
The society of the saints, I have obtained by the greatest good fortune and my wandering mind has become pacified.
The incessant melody of the musical instruments ever resounds and I am sated with the relish of the Divine ambrosial stream.
O my Lord, contemplate thou, the Name of the beauteous Lord God.
The True Guru has imbued my heart and body with the love of the Lord who has met and closely embraced me. Pause.
The mammon worshippers are bound down with the chains of riches and they are vigorously engaged in a amassing the poisonous wealth.
In the Name of God, they can expend it not on their head, they bear the pain of the blow of death's myrmidon.
The saint Guru, who has dedicated his body to the service of God, with great devotion, I smear my face with the dust of his feet.
In this world, and the world-beyond, the divine Guru obtains glory and his soul is imbued with the fast colour of God's love.
My Lord God, unite me with the society of the pious, persons Before the pious persons, I am but a worm.
Slave Nanak has enshrined affection for the saint Guru's feet and meeting with the saint, my silly stone mind is reverdured.
Jaitsri 4rh Guru.
There is but One God, by True Guru grace is He obtained.
Remember thou the Inaccessible and Infinite Lord Master.
Remembering whom, our agony is dispelled.
My Lord God, make me meet the great True Guru and meeting with the Guru, I abide in peace.
My friend, sing thou the praise of thy heart.
Keep the Lord God's Name clasped to thy heart.
Read out to me, the ambrosial words of the Lord master. Meeting with the Guru, the Lord becomes manifest.
God, the destroyer of Madh demon, and the Lord of wealth, is my very life.
The Lord's Nectar Name is sweet to my mind and body.
My Lord Master, take pity on me and lead me on to the Guru, who himself is the Immaculate Lord.
The Lord, the Lord's name is ever peace-giving.
With God's love, my soul is imbued.
O Lord God, lead me on to the Guru, the sublime person. Through the Name of Guru Nanak peace is attained.
Jaitsri 4th Guru.
O man, repeat thou the Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord's Name.
Through the Guru's grace, ever reap thou the profit of the Name.
Implement within thee God, God, God, God's devotion and cultivate yearning for the Lord God's Name.
Remember thou the Name of the merciful Lord Master.
Ever sing the praise of God with love.
Dance thou with the praise of God, God, God and meet with the society of saints with yearling.
Come, O mate, let us associate with God's congregation.
By hearing God's discourse, reap the profit of the Name.
My Lord Master, show mercy and unite me with the Guru. Meeting with the Guru, wells up the Divine bliss.
Sing thou the praise and glory of the Unapproachable and Unfathomable Lord.
Every moment, sing thou, the praise of the Lord's Name.
O my Beneficent Guru, be merciful and meet me. Nanak has a great longing for the Lord's devotional service.
Jaitsri 4th Guru.
With love and affection, praise thou, thy Lord, the store house of Nectar.
My mind is pleased with the Lord's Name, and reaps the profit.
Day and night, every moment, I perform God's service. By Guru's instruction, the love for the Lord's service wells up.
I utter the praise of my Lord God, the Master of the universe.
Conquering my mind and body, I earn the profit of the Name.
By Guru's instruction, the five demons are over powered and in the mind and body wells up the affection for God.
The Name is the jewel, hence, utter thou, the God's Name.
Sing God's praise and ever reap the profit.
O Merciful to the meek and the Lord of wealth, be king to me and bless me with the longing of Lord's God's Name.
Within thy mind, contemplate, contemplate, thou on the Name of the World-Lord.
The only advantageous think in the world is the Lord God, the Master of the universe.
Blessed, blessed is my great Lord Master, O Nanak, With yearning, embrace thou his meditation and service.
Jaitsri 4th Guru.
The Lord Himself is the Yogi and Himself the way in all the ages.
Himself, the fearless Lord sits in trance.
All be Himself, he is pervading every where, and Himself, He blesses man with the bliss of His Name's meditation.
The Lord Himself is the lamp, light and the llluminatror.
Himself is He the True Guru and Himself he churns the ocean.
Himself the Lord churns, and churns up the essence, Remembering the Name jewel, happiness wells up.
O mates, let us meet together and sing the Lord's praise.
By Guru's grace, meditate on the Name and earn the profit of Lord's Name.
The implanting of the Lord God's adoration within me is pleasing to my mind. I take pleasure in uttering the Lord Master's Name.
The Lord is every wise and also the great King.
Through the Guru, the Name merchandise is purchased.
O Lord God, bless me with such a gift that Thy virtues seem sweet to me and, within Nanak, wells up the joy of Thy Name.
Jaitsri 4th Guru.
Meeting the Guru, in the saints society, the pious person gathers the Name capital.
The Destroyer of Madh demon,
O Lord God, show me mercy, that I may have a keen desire to unite with the saints congregation.
O God, mercifully unite me with the True Guru and,
with my ears, make me hear the hymns in Thine praise.
I sing God's praise utter the hymns in His praise and the joy of repeating the Lord's excellence, wells up in me.
I have weighed all the merits of visiting the places of pilgrimage, observing fasts, performing sacred feasts and giving of alms.
But they equal not and measure not up to the Lord God's Name.
God's Name, is unweighable and very heavy is its weight, Under Guru's instruction the yearning to utter God's Name wells up in me.
All the virtuous deeds and righteousness are contained in the meditation of God's Name.
It washes off sins and filth of misdeeds.
O Lord, be merciful unto Thine humble slave Nanak and let him be so blessed that the joy of Thy Name wells up in him.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Does any one know, who is the friend in this world?
He, to whom the Lord is merciful, he alone understands this mystery. Immaculate is his mode of life. Pause.
Mother, father, wife, sons, relations, lovers, friends, and brothers,
meet because of association of the previous births, but in the end, none of them extends a helping hand.
Pearl necklaces, gold, rubies and diamonds are the illusory riches, which please not mind.
To gather them man's life passes in agony, yet, in them he obtains not contentment.
Elephants, chariots, horses swift like the wind, wealth, lands and four Kings, of armies,
nothing of these goes with the man and he gets up and departs all naked.
God's saints are the dear beloved of the Lord. In their company, sing Thou the Lord God's praise.
Nanak, in the society of such saints, the mortal gathers peace here and his face becomes bright hereafter.
Jaitsri 5th Guru. Dupadas
There is but One God, By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Give me intelligence, and tell, do tell me something of my Beloved.
I am wonder struck hearing of His many sorts of accounts I relate them to you, O happy wives, my mates. Pause.
Some say He is altogether beyond the world, some say, he is altogether within it.
His colour is not seen and His outline is not distinguished. O happy wives, tell me the truth.
He pervadeth all, abideth in every heart, is soiled not and is uncontaminated.
Says Nanak, listen, O ye people, my Lord dwells on the tongue of the saints.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
I am sedated, I am sedated by hearing of my Lord. Pause.
Seeing the Lord near, so near, I offer Him my very existence, very life, soul, body, and everything.
Seeing the Unestimable, Infinite and the great Beneficent Lord, I treasure Him in my mind.
Meditating on my Lord, I obtain exactly that, which I wish for and my hopes and desires are fulfilled.
By Guru's grace the Lord is enshrined in Nanak's mind and knowing Him, he regrets not in distress.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
I seek the Lord, my Friend.
In every house, sing ye, O men, the sublime songs of rejoicing, for He abides in every heart. Pause.
Remember Him in weal, remember Him in woe and forget Him not at any time.
Contemplating the Name, there is the light of millions of suns and the darkness of superstition vanishes.
Thou, O Lord, art in all the places, in space as in interspaces. Whatever we see, that is Thine.
Nanak, he who obtains the saints society, is cast not again into the round of transmigration.
Jaitsri 5th Guru. Dupadas
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Bowing before the Guru, I have, now, attained peace.
I have abandoned cleverness, stilled my anxiety and wholly renounced my self-conceit. Pause.
When I see carefully then, I find everybody fascinated by worldly love. It is then that I hasten to seek Guru's protection.
Showing mercy, the Guru has engaged me in God's service, then, the death, Minister gave up my pursuit.
When, through great good fortune, I met with the saints, I swam across the ocean of fire.
Says slave Nanak, I have obtained all the comforts and my mind is attached to God's feet.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
Within my mind I have enshrined the memory of the True Guru.
The adorable Lord has shown mercy unto me, and within my mind, I have implanted divine knowledge and the spell of God's Name. Pause.
Death's noose, the heavy entanglements, and the fear of death, have, now, all vanished.
I have sought the refuge of the merciful Lord, Destroyer of pain, and am holding fast the support of His feet.
The saints society is like a boat to cross the terrible world ocean.
Says Nanak, I quaff the Lord's Nectar, my doubt is shattered, and bear I, the unbearable.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
He, whom the Lord of the World extends his support,
is blessed with all peace, poise and bliss and to him no disease clings. Pause.
He appears to be with all, but remains detached and the mammon clings to him not.
He remains absorbed in the love of the one Lord, understands, the reality, and is blessed with the understanding by The True Guru.
They alone, on whom is the Kindness, compassion and the mercy of the Lord, are the sanctified saints.
Nanak is saved in the association of those who, with love and joy sing the Lord's praise.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
The Lord of the World, is my animate existence, very life, wealth and beauty.
The mortal is greatly inebriated in ignorance and worldly love and the Lord in this darkness. Pause.
Fruitful is Thine vision, O my dear Lord and exceedingly beauteous are Thine lotus feet.
Many times, make I obeisance unto Him and offer my soul as incense before Him.
Grown weary, I have fallen at Thy door, O Lord, and have firmly grasped thy support.
O Lord, pull out Nanak, Thine own slave, out of the world's well of fire.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
Let some one unite me with God.
I cling to His feet, with my tongue utter sweet words and make an offering of my very life. Pause.
Making my heart and body the pure little plots, I thoroughly irrigate them with God's elixir.
By God's grace, the mortal is adsorbed in God's this elixir and breaks with the supreme sins.
O Lord, the Destroyer of sorrow of the poor, I have sought Thy protection and I think ever of Thee.
My Lord, bless me with the gift of the state of fearlessness and Thy meditation. O Nanak, the Lord is the shatterer of Shackles.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
The pied-cuckoo wishes the rain to fall,
O Lord, the Ocean of compassion, show mercy unto me, that I may enshrine affection for Thine loving adoration. Pause.
The shelduck desires not many other comforts, but is filled with bliss on seeing the day.
By no other means can a fish survive, She dies without water.
I am an orphan and seek Thy protection, O God, My Master. Show Thy mercy unto me.
Nanak remembers only the Lord's lotus feet and without Him, he recognises not any other.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
My Lord, my very life, abides within my soul and body.
O my Omniscient Perfect Lord, mercifully unite me with the society of saints. Pause.
They, to whom Thou givest the intoxicating, O Lord, quaff the great Nectar.
Their worth I can express not. What power have I to do so?
His slaves and serfs, the Lord attaches to His skirt and they, the swimmers, swim across the world-ocean.
Contemplating, meditating and ever dwelling on the Lord, they obtain peace, Nanak too has repaired to Thy door, for refuge.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
Wandering through many lives, I have entered Thy sanctuary, O Lord.
Pull out my body from the blind well and attach me to Thine feet. Pause.
I know not gnosis, meditation and good deeds, nor do I possess the pure way of life.
Attach me to the skirt of the saints society, that I may cross the formidable stream.
The worldly comforts, riches and the sweet pleasure of mammon, these, place thou not, in thy mind.
Slave Nanak is satiated by having the Lord's vision and now his only ornamentation is the love of God's Name.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
O slaves of God, in your mind, think of the Omnipresent Lord.
Calamity comes not near the Lord's serf and all the affairs of His servant are arranged. Pause.
Millions of obstacles are removed by serving the Lord and the mortal enters into the eternal abode of the World-Lord.
The Fortunate devotee of God has absolutely no fear Him, the Death's myrmidon pays homage.
Forsaking the Lord, doing of other deeds, all that is perishable and impermanent.
O Nanak, cling thou to the Lord's lotus feet in thy heart and thou shalt obtain all peace and bliss.
Jaitsri 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
My erring soul is entangled with mammon.
Whatever deeds I do attached with avarice, with them all, I am binding myself down. Pause.
I cultivate not true understanding am engrossed in sinful pleasure and have forgotten the praise of God.
The Lord is ever with me. Him, I recognise not and run seeking Him in the forest.
The Lord's jewel is within my mind and Himself knowledge I have not.
O serf Nanak, without the fortune Lord's meditation, the human life is lost in vain.
Jaitsri 9th Guru.
O adorable God, preserve Thou my honour.
The fear of death has entered my mind and I have clung to Thine asylum, O Ocean of mercy. Pause.
I am a great sinner, stupid and greedy and I have now grown weary of committing sins.
The fear of death, I forget not and that anxiety has ruined my body.
I have been running about in ten directions, making efforts for my emancipation.
The Pure Lord abides within my mind, but I know not His secret.
I have no merit, nor any contemplation and austerity. What deed should I, now, do to please Thee O my Lord?
Nanak, I have grown weary and have sought Thy protection. O Lord, bless me with the gift of fearlessness.
Jaitsri 9th Guru.
O man, embrace thou true Wisdom.
Be certain, that without the Lord's Name, all this world is false. Pause.
He, whom the Yogis have grown weary of searching without finding His limit.
Know thou that that Lord is near thee, but is without any form and outline.
Purifying is the Name of God in the world, yet thou never rememberest it.
Nanak, has entered the sanctuary of Him, before whom the world bows down. Preserve me as it Thine innate nature, O Lord.
Jaitsri 5th Guru. Chhant.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Slok.
Day and night I thirst for the Lord's vision and ever think of Him daily.
Opening the door of my mind, O Nanak, the Guru has make me meet with God, my Friend.
Chhant.
Hear thou, O my intimate friend, I make one supplication.
I wander about searching for that enticing sweet Beloved of mine.
Give me some idea about that Beloved. I will sever my head and place it before Him, If He blesses me with His sight even for a moment.
Mine, eyes are imbued with the love of my Beloved and without Him they have not even a moment's peace.
My soul is a attached to the Lord, as the fish is to water and as the sparrow hawk feels thirsty for the rain drop.
Serf Nanak has attained to the Perfect Guru and his entire thirst is quenched.
Of all the mates of my Beloved, O my friend, I am equal to none.
O my Intimate, when every one excels another there, then who can ever think of me?
Numberless are my Beloved's sweet hearts, one better than the others, who ever bill and coo with Him.
Beholding them, ambition wells up in my mind as to when shall I obtain that treasure?
They, who have propitiated my love, my soul, I dedicate unto them.
Says Nanak, hear my supplication, O happy bride, and tell me how my Beloved looks like?
O friend my Spouse doeth what He pleaseth and oweth obedience to none.
O my intimate thou hast enjoyed they Darling, now, give me, thou, His tidings.
They, on whose forehead such good fortune is writ, attain to the Beloved Lord, through self effacement.
Holding me by the arm, the Lord has owned me, and has considered not my merits and demerits.
She, whom, Thou, O Lord, deckest with the necklace of virtues and dyest in Thine red hue, every think befits her.
Blessed is that happy wife, O slave Nanak, with whom abides her Spouse.
O friend, the Invaluable wealth for which I ever vowed dedication, that I have obtained.
My desired Bridegroom has come and congratulations pour in for me.
Supreme joy and happiness have welled up when my spouse of ever fresh beauty, has become compassionate unto me.
By The great good fortune, I have obtained my Groom. The Guru has united me with Him through the society of saints.
My hopes and desires are all fulfilled and my dear Groom has hugged me to His bosom.
Supplicates Nanak, the invaluable wealth, for which I vowed dedication, that I have obtained by8 meeting with the Guru.
Jaitsri 5th Guru. Chhant.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Slok.
My Lord is Lofty, Unapproachable and Infinite, He is Ineffable and cannot be described.
Nanak has sought the refuge of the Lord, who is Omnipotent to save.
Chhant.
My Lord God, I am Thine, as Thou pleasest, so dost Thou preserve me.
How many misdeeds of mine should I count? They are innumerable.
Countless sins and errors have I committed; day by day, I ever go wrong.
I am inebriated with worldly love and the hideous worldly valuables. By thine grace can I be redeemed.
In secrecy, I commit agonizing sins, but the Lord is the nearest of the near.
Prays Nanak, O Lord, show mercy unto me and pull me out of the whirl pools of the dreadful world ocean.
Slok.
Innumerable are the virtues of the Lord and they cannot be enumerated. Lofty indeed is the Lord's Name.
This is the prayer of Nanak, "O Lord, bless Thou the abodeless beings with an abode".
Chhant.
Without Thee, there is not another place, Then whom else should I go to?
Throughout eight watches of the day, I meditate on that Lord with hands joined.
Meditating ever on that Lord of mine, I obtain my heart-desired boons.
Renouncing pride, secular attachment and the sin of duality, fix thou, O man, thy attention on the One Lord.
Dedicating thy body and soul to the Lord, wholly efface thou, thy self-conceit.
Supplicates Nanak, my Lord, take pity on me, that I may be absorbed in Thy True Name.
Slok.
O my soul, contemplate thou on Him, in whose hand is everything.
Amass thou the wealth of the Lord's Name. Nanak, it shall stand by thee in the yond.
Chhant.
The Lord alone is the real friend; there is not another.
In places, inter-space, ocean and land, He Himself is fully contained.
The Beneficent Lord Master of all is filling the ocean, land and the firmament.
The World-Cherisher and the Master of the universe has no limit. Innumerable are His merits. How can I recount them?
I hasten to the refuge of Lord, the harbinger of peace. Without Him there is not any other.
Prays Nanak, to whomsoever Thou showest mercy, O Lord, he alone attains to Thy Name.
Slok.
Whatever I heartily wished for, that I have obtained.
Contemplating the name, Nanak has attained all the comforts.
Chhant.
Meeting the society of saints, my soul is now, emancipated.
By Guru's grace, I have uttered the name and my light is merged in the Supreme Light.
Remembering the Name, my sins are effaced, the fire within is quenched and I ma satiated.
The Lord has mercifully taken me by the arm and has accepted me as His own.
The Guru has hugged me to his bosom, united me with God and my pain of birth and death is burnt off.
Supplicates Nanak, the Lord has shown me mercy and in an instant, has united me with Himself.
Jaitsri Chhand 5th Guru.
The world is like a caravan-sarai and yet it is filled with pride.
The world is like a caravan-sarai and yet it is filled with pride.
Dyed with the love of worldly valuables, people commit many sins.
They sons, friends, worldly affairs and wife these are the things they talk of and their life passes away thus.
When their destined days are over, O Mother, they grieve on beholding the couriers of the Righteous Judge.
Nanak, the result of the deeds done cannot be wiped out when one has not earned the wealth of God's Name.
The man makes many efforts, but God's Name he sings not.
He wanders about in myriad of existences, dies and is born again.
He passes through the life of beasts, birds, stones and trees, whose number cannot be known.
As is the seed man sows, so is the fruit he enjoys. He obtains the result of his own acts.
The jewel of human life, he loses in the game of gamble and his Lord loves him not.
Supplicates Nanak, man wanders in doubt and obtains not rest even for a moment.
Youth has passed away and the old-age has taken possession of the body.
The hands tremble, the head shakes and the eyes, see not.
The eyes, see not without the Master's meditation. One leaves behind his riches and departs.
They, for whom he burnt his mind and body, listen to him not and instead, throw dust on his head.
The love of the Infinite and Perfect adorable Lord, abides not even for a moment in his mind.
Prays Nanak, no delay is caused in the destruction of the false fort of paper that this body is.
Nanak has sought the refuge of the Lord's lotus feet.
The Lord Himself has ferried me across the arduous and terrible world. ocean.
Meeting the society of saints, I meditate on the Lord of wealth and the Lord, taking my side, has saved me.
The Lord has approved of me, blessed me with His Name and has taken nothing else into consideration.
I have attained to the Infinite Lord, the Treasure of virtues, whom my mind sought.
Prays Nanak, I am now, for ever satiated, as I have partaken the food of the Name of God.
Jaitsri 5th Guru. Ode with Sloks.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Slok.
The Transcendent Lord pervaded in the beginning, pervades in the middle and would pervade in the end.
Nanak, the saints remember the All-pervading God, who is the Destroyer of sins and the Lord of the universe.
Behold, hear, utter and implant the True Lord within thy mind.
Nanak, the Lord is fully contained amongst all, Be thou absorbed in His love.
Pauri.
Sing thou the praise of the one Immaculate Lord, who is contained in everything.
The Omnipotent Lord is the Doer and the Cause and whatever he willeth that alone takes places.
He establishes and disestablishes in a moment, for, without Him, there is not another.
The Lord is pervading the continents, solar systems, the under worlds, the islands and all the worlds.
He, whom the Lord Himself instructs, understands Him, He alone is the pure person.
Slok.
Creating man, the Lord installs the creation in the mother's womb.
At every breath, it remembers the Lord, O Nanak, and the great fire consumes it not.
With head downwards and feet upwards, thou abidest in a filthy place.
Nanak, why forgettest thou the Master by remembering whose Name, thou wert saved?
Pauri.
O mortal, thou wert conceived from the female egg and the male sperm and wert placed in the fire of the womb.
With head downward thou dwelt restlessly in the filthy, dark and terrible hell.
Remembering God, thou wert burnt, not, go keep Him clasped to thy mind, body and heart.
He, who preserved thee in an arduous place, forget Him not thou, even for an instant.
Forgetting the Lord, thou shalt never obtain peace and shalt depart, losing thy life.
Slok.
The Lord bestows the heat-desired boons and fulfills all the hopes.
He destroys strifes and sufferings. O Nanak, contemplate thou on the Lord, who is not far off.
With whom thou shalt enjoy all the joys, bear thou, love with Him.
Forget thou not, even, for an instant, that Lord, who has fashioned this beautiful body, O Nanak.
Pauri.
The Lord has blessed thee with soul, life, body and wealth and has given the dainties to enjoy.
He has given thee houses, mansions, chariots and horses and built good destiny for thee.
He has conferred on the thee sons, wife, friends, and servants. The Lord is Omnipotent to give to all.
Meditating on the Lord, the body and soul are reverdured and the sorrow departs.
In the saints, society, utter thou the God's praise and all thine ailments shall vanish.
Slok.
Man makes efforts for his family and he puts in many endeavours for the sake of wealth.
If he is without the Lord's love worship and forgets the Master then, he is like a ghost, O Nanak.
That love shall break, which is contracted with any one other than God.
Nanak, true is the way of bearing love with the Lord.
Pauri.
By His separation the body becomes dust and all call it a ghost.
They, with whom thou hast so much love, permit thee not to stay in home, even for an instant.
Practising oppression, thou hast amassed wealth, of what avail is that to thee, now?
As the mortal sows so does he reap.
This body is the field of actions, The ungrateful forget God and wander in existences.
Slok.
One obtains the merit of millions of charities and ablutions and of various purifications and pieties,
and who utters the God's Name with his tongue; all his sins are washed off, O Nanak.
I collected plenty of fuel and applied a little fire to it and it got reduced to ashes.
Similarly, it the True Spouse abides in the mind, all the sins are washed off, O Nanak.
Pauri.
Myriads of sins are all destroyed by repeating the God's Name.
Singing God's praises, man obtains his heart desired boons.
The fear of birth and death is removed and an eternal and true abode is obtained.
If it be so pre-ordained, the mortal becomes absorbed in the Lord's feet.
Blessing me with Thy mercy, preserve me, O Lord; Nanak is a sacrifice unto Thee.
Slok.
They, who are engrossed in their beautiful built mansion and the various relishes of the mind's desires?
And contemplate not their Lord ever, those beings are the worms of ordure, O Nanak.
Forsake thou all the worldly ostentations and be not engrossed in their love.
The body, which forgets that Lord, shall be reduced to ashes, O Nanak.
Pauri.
A men, may enjoy a beauteous couch, numerous pleasures and all Sorts of enjoyment.
And may possess mansions of gold studded with pearls and rubies and plastered with fragrant sandal dust.
One may enjoy heart desired pleasures and have no anxiety whatever,
but, if one remembers not that Lord; he is like a worn in ordure.
Without God's Name, there is no peace. In What other way can the soul be comforted?
Slok.
The lover of the Lord's lotus feet, lovingly searches Him in ten directions.
He renounces the deceitful mammon and joins the delightful society of saints, O Nanak.
Within my mind is the Lord's Name, with my mouth I repeat His Name and go searching Him in all the lands.
Nanak all the ostentations are false. I live by hearing the Lord's true praise.
Pauri.
He, who abides in a broken hut, with all his clothes tattered;
And has neither high casts nor honour nor respect and wanders in wilderness.
Has neither a friend, nor a beloved and is without wealth, beauty, relation or Kinsman;
He is yet the King of the whole world, if his soul is adsorbed in the Lord's Name.
Yea, with the dust of his feet, one is emancipated because the Lord is well-pleased with him.
Salok.
Various types of enjoyments, dominions, pleasures, beauty, canopy and fan waving over head and throne to sit upon,
in them, only unwise, ignorant and blind are engrossed. Desire for riches, Say Nanak, to like a dream.
In dream, man enjoy all relishes and worldly attachments seen sweet to him.
Nanak, without the Name, the beautiful worldly valuables are but a fraud.
Pauri.
The fool attaches his mind with the dream.
When the awakes, forgotten are the power, revelments, pleasure and he suffers disappointment.
His life passes away in running after worldly affairs.
His affairs are accomplished not, because he is fascinated by mammon.
What can the helpless creature do, when the Lord Himself strays him?
Slok.
Though they may abide in a heavenly land and conquer the nine regions of the earth,
but if those mortals forget the Lord God, O Nanak, they are like wanderers in the wilderness.
Where, in midst of millions of plays and entertainments, God, 's Name is not contemplate,
O Nanak, that place is a wilderness and equal to the lepers hell.
Pauri.
The very terrible wilderness, the man takes as a city.
Beholding the false paraphernalia, he deems it to be true.
Engrossed in lust, wrath and ego he roams about madly.
When the club of death falls on his head, then does he regret.
Without the Perfect, Divine Guru, he moves about like a Satan.
Slok.
Deceptive is power, deceptive is beauty and deceptive are wealth, and pride of lineage.
Man amasses poisonous wealth with deceit and guile, O Nanak Bur, without the Lord's Name, nothing goes with him.
The mortal is mistaken on beholding the colocynth which appears to be beautiful.
However, it fetches not even a shell as its price. O Nanak, the riches go not with the mortal.
Pauri.
Why amass that which goes not with thee, when thou departest?
Say, why thou endevourest to acquire that which thou must leave behind?
How can thy mind be contented by forgetting God? it cannot be pleases either.
He, who forsaking, the Lord, attaches to another, abides in hell.
O Lord, be Thou Kind and compassionate, and dispel Nanak's dread.
Slok.
Sweet are not the pleasure of empire, sweet are not the sensuous enjoyments and sweet are not the comforts of riches.
Sweet is the association of the God's saints, O Slave Nanak and sweet is the Lord's sight.
I have enshrined such a love, wherein my soul is imbued.
My mind is pierced through with the Lord's true wealth and the Master seems sweet to me, O Nanak.
Pauri.
Without God, nothing appears sweet to His devoted slaves.
All other relishes are insipid; them, I have tested and seen.
The pain of ignorance and doubt is dispelled, when the Guru becomes man's intercessor.
The Lord's lotus feet have pierced through my mind and I am dyed red, like madder's hue.
My life, soul, body and heart, now belong to God and all falsehood has left me.
Slok.
Forsaking water, the fish can live not, nor the pied-cuckoo on forsaking the spheres of clouds.
The deer is pierced by the arrow of the bell's music and the block-bee is entangled with the fragrance of flowers.
The saints remain absorbed in the Lord's lotus feet and desire naught else, O Nanak.
O Lord, show me Thy face even for a trice, and I shall then give not my mind to another.
Nanak, the real life consists in abiding with the Lord Master who is the friend of the saints.
Pauri.
How can a fish maintain life with out water?
How can a sparrow hawk be satisfied without rain drips?
As the deer, fascinated by music runs straight towards the huntsman,
as the bumble-bee greedy after the flower's fragrance, finding it, enmeshes itself into it,
so do the holy men love their God and are sated by seeing His vision.
Slok.
The saints meditate on the Lord's lotus feet, and remember Him in every breath.
They forget not the Name of Imperishable Being. O Nanak, the Transcendent Lord fulfills their hopes.
The Lord is stitched into my heart, and never goes out of it even for a moment.
Nanak, the True Master fulfills my hopes and ever watches over them.
Pauri.
My hopes rest in Thee, O Lord of the universe; Pray fulfill Thou, mine hopes.
Meeting with the Lord Master, I shall tantalise not ever.
My mind desires Thee, Pray let me have Thine vision that my anxiety may depart.
My body is purified with the dust of Thine feet.
O supreme Lord, the Divine Guru, Thou art ever present with me.
Slok.
With my tongue, I utter the Lord's Name and with mine ears, I hear the Nectar. Name.
Nanak, is ever a sacrifice unto those, who meditate on their supreme Lord.
All the affairs are false, save the one Lord alone.
Nanak, blessed are they, who bear who to their true Lord.
Pauri.
I am ever devoted unto those, who hear the Lord's discourse.
Perfect and eminent are they, who bow their forehead to the Lord.
Beauteous are the hands, which writ the infinite praises of the Lord.
Pure and holy, are the feet, which walk on the Lord's path.
They emancipate in the company of saints and all their sorrows depart.
Slok.
Through perfect good fortune man's destiny is awakened and he utters the Lord's Name.
Fruitful is that moment, O Nanak, when man obtains the vision of the World-Cherisher.
The value of that moment can be appraised not and its bliss is beyond measure.
Nanak that time alone is approved, when my Beloved meets me.
Pauri.
Tell me what time is that when I shall attain to my Lord?
Auspicious is that moment and destiny, when I shall attains to the world-Lord.
Meditating on God for the eight watches of the day, my mind's desires are realised.
It is by great good fortune that the company of saints is obtained; I bow and touch their feet.
My mind thirsts for the Lord's sight, Unto Him, Nanak is a sacrifice.
Slok.
The Lords of universe is the Purifier of sinners and the Dispeller of all the distresses.
The Lord is worthy of giving refuge and Nanak repeats the Lord Master's Name.
Abandoning self-conceit altogether, I now cling to the Master's feet.
On beholding my Lord, troubles and sufferings have departed, O Nanak.
Pauri.
Unite me with Thee, O my Merciful Master. I have fallen at Thine door.
Safeguard me, O Merciful to the meek, wandering about, I have become very weary.
It is Thy innate nature to love Thine saints and save the sinners, O Lord.
Without Thee, is not another To Thee I make this supplication, O God.
Take me by the hand, O Beneficent Lord and ferry me across the world ocean.
Slok.
The King Lord is the Saviour of saints; singing praise of the Lord is my only support.
Associating with the saints and by seeking the supreme Lord's protection, O Nanak, the mortal becomes immaculate.
The heart's burning is not at all removed by the sandal-paste, the moon or the cold season.
It is rendered cool; O Nanak, by repeating the Lord's Name.
Pauri.
Seeking the refuge of the Lord's lotus feet, all men are emancipated.
Hearing of the World-Lord's glory, the mind becomes fearless.
Nothing at all is left wanting, when the wealth of the God's Name is amassed.
The society of the pious persons is obtained by highly meritorious deeds.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, meditate thou, on God and ever hear God's praise.
Slok.
He, who sings the praise of the Name, unto him, the Lord shows, mercy and dispels his distress.
When the fortunate Lord Master becomes compassionate, O Nanak, the man is no longer engrossed in worldly attachments.
The burning fire has been quenched and the Lord Himself saved me.
O Nanak, contemplate thou on that Lord, who has created the world.
Pauri.
When the Master becomes merciful, then mammon clings not the man.
Meditating on One God, millions of sins are removed.
Bathing in the dust of the feet of the Lord's slaves, the body is rendered immaculate.
The mind and body become contented and one attains to the Perfect Lord.
He is saved along with his family members and all his lineage.
Slok.
The Guru is the Master, the Guru is the Lord and the Guru is the Pervading God.
The Guru is compassionate, the Guru, is Omnipotent and the Guru, O Nanak, is the saviour of sinners.
The Guru is the ship to cross over the dangerous, formidable and unfathomable world ocean.
Nanak, perfect is the destiny of him, who is attached to the True Guru's feet.
Pauri.
Blessed! blessed is the Divine Guru, in whose association the Lord is meditated upon.
When the Guru becomes merciful, then all the demerits disappear.
The illumined Guru, my Transcendent Lord, makes the low exalted.
Cutting the painful noose of mammon, He makes us his slaves.
My tongue sings the virtues and praises of the Infinite Lord.
Slok.
Only the One Creator I see, the One I hear and the One I find pervading all.
Nanak asks for the gift of God's Name. O my merciful Lord, grant me this boon.
The One Lord I serve, the One I remember and to the One, I make supplication.
Nanak has amassed the merchandise and wealth of the Name, the real capital.
Pauri.
The Lord is compassionate and limitless. He alone is All-pervading.
He Himself is All in all. whom else should I refer to as like Him?
The Lord Himself grants gifts and He Himself receives them.
Coming and going is all in Thy will, O Lord and Eternal is Thine abode.
Nanak begs a boon: Mercifully bless me with Thy Name.
Jaitsri Hymns of the saints.
There is but One God. By Guru's grace is He obtained.
My Lord, I know nothing.
My soul is sold out in the mammon's hand. Pause.
Thou art called the great Lord of the world,
and I am styled the sensualist of the Darkage.
These five vices have corrupted my mind.
Every moment they remove me away from God.
Withersoever I look, there is a stock of troubles.
Though the Vedas bear testimony, even then my mind believers not in God.
O Lord, the body of Indar, who mated with Gautam's wife, came to bear a thousands vaginal marks.
Brahma's head got stuck to the hand of Shiva, the husband of Parbati.
These demons have bound and destroyed me, a fool.
I am every shameless, for, even now, I grow not weary of their company.
Says Ravidas, what way should I adopt now.
Except God's protection, whose else should I seek.
There is but One God. True is His Name, creative His personality and immortal His form, He is without fear, sans enmity beyond birth and self-illumined. By Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Todi Measure. 4th Guru.
Without God, my soul can live not.
If the Guru unites me with my life like darling Lord God, I shall not, again, go round the dreadful world ocean. Pause.
Within my mind, I have longing for the Lord and with mine eyes, I see my Lord God, the Master.
The compassionate True Guru has implanted God's Name within me and that is the way which leads to God, the Lord Master.
I have received the Loved Lord God Master's Name, yea, the name of the Lord God Master.
To my mind, heart and body, God's Name tastes sweet On my face and brow is writ is writ the good fortune.
They, whose soul is attached to avarice and sin, forget the sublime Lord.
The are styled, willful, foolish and ignorant and on their forehead is writ an inglorious destiny.
The discriminating intellect, I have obtained from the True Guru and true is the gnosis revealed by the Divine Guru.
Slave Nanak has obtained the Name from the Guru, Such a destiny was pre-ordained on my brow.
Todi 5th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Without the Lord, the saints knows not any other.
They, on whose side is the Lord, ever remain free from care, in the God's love. Pause.
High is thine canopy, O my Lord. No one else has any power.
Such an immortal Lord, the devotees have obtained. The saints remain absorbed in the Lord's love.
Disease, sorrow, pain, old age and death draw not near the Lord's slave.
They remain fear-free in the love of One Lord, O Nanak and their soul remains propitiated with God.
Todi 5th Guru.
Forgetting God, one is ruined for good.
How can he be defrauded, who has Thy support, O Lord? Pause.
Without Lord's meditation, to live is like burning in fire, even though, like a serpent, one's life may be long.
Though man may rule over the nine regions of the earth, yet, without Lord's meditation, in the end, he shall depart losing the game.
He alone sings the praise of the Lord, the Treasure of excellences, on whom is His grace.
He is at peace and blesses is his birth, who sings the Lord's praise. Nanak is a sacrifice unto him.
Todi 5th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
This mind wanders and wanders in ten directions.
The man is inebriated in mammon and is bewitched by the relish of avarice. The Lord Himself has led him astray. Pause.
To God's discourse, God's praise and the society of saints, he applies not this mind of his, even for a moment.
He is pleased to behold the (transient) colour of safe flower and wanders about spying another's woman.
The Lord's lotus feet he loves not, nor propitiate he the True Lord.
Like the circling round of the oilman's ox, he runs around the fleeting objects in may ways.
He practises not the name, charity and ablution, and sings not God's praise even for a moment.
Clinging to many types of falsehoods, he pleases his mind and understands not his ownself.
He does not ever do good to others, nor serves and remembers he, the True Guru.
Absorbed in the company and consultation of the five demons, he is inebriated with the pride of worldly valuables.
Hearing that God is the Lover of His saints, I come and pray to Him in the society of saints.
Nanak, runs after Him, and supplicates "O Lord, do Thou own me and preserve my honour".
Todi 5th Guru.
Without knowing the Lord, vain is the man's advent.
He makes various embellishments and many decorations but it is like dressing a corpse. Pause.
With utmost efforts, the miser toils and amasses riches.
He gives not alms, ministers not charity and serves not the saints. His wealth avails him not the least.
The woman puts on ornaments, decks her couch and makes great decorations.
But, if she obtains not the company of her husband, she is pained looking at her decorations.
The man labours all day long, pounding husks with a pestle.
He, suffers pain like a forced labourer and is of no use to his home.
He, on whom is the Lord's grace, within his mind, He implants His Name.
He searches the society of saints, O slave, Nanak, and obtains Lord's Nectar.
Todi 5th Guru.
O God, the Ocean, of mercy, abide Thou ever in my mind.
Enlighten Thou such intellect in me, that I may bear love with Thee, O Lord. Pause.
Bless me with the dust of Thy slave's feet. Obtaining and gathering it, I shall apply it to my forehead.
From a supreme sinner, I am rendered pure, by singing God's praises and virtues.
Thine will seems sweet unto me and whatever Thou doest, pleases me.
Whatever Thou givest, with that, this soul of mine is satiated. I run after no one else.
I ever reckon the Lord Master near me and I remain the dust of all men's feet.
If I meet the society of saints, then shall I obtain my Lord.
Ever and ever I am Thy child. Thou art my Lord and King.
Nanak is Thine child and Thou O Lord, art my mother and father, Put thou Thy Name as milk into my mouth.
Todi 5th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
O Lord, from Thee, I crave the gift of Thy Name.
Naught else shall go with me. Through Thine grace, grant me the singing of Thy praise. Pause.
Power, wealth, varied revelments and enjoyment are all like the shadow of a tree.
Man, runs, runs and runs in many directions, but all his pursuits are vain.
Yea, everything that man desires, other than the Lord of the wold, seems to be transitory.
Says Nanak, I seek the dust of the saints feet that my soul my obtain rest.
Todi 5th Guru.
The Name of the reverend Lord is the support of my soul.
The name is the life, soul and solace of this mind, and for me, it is a thing of daily use. Pause.
The Name is my caste, the Name is my honour and the names is my family.
The Lord's name, my companion, is ever with me and it is the Lord's name that delivers me.
Sensuous pleasures are much spoken of, but none of them goes along with the man.
Nanak seeks the name of dear Friend, God's Name is my treasure, he says.
Todi 5th Guru.
Sing thou the sublime praises of the Lord, and thine maladies shall be cured.
Thy countenance shall become bright and thy mind immaculate and thou shalt be saved in this and that world. Pause.
I wash Guru's feet and serve him and make I am offering of my soul to him.
Abandon thou thy self-conceit, contention, and pride, and cheerfully accept what comes from God
He alone attaches himself to be saints service, on whose forehead such a destiny is writ.
Says Nanak, except the one Lord, there is not any other potent to accomplish aught.
Todi 5th Guru.
My True Guru, I have sought Thy protection.
Grant me the peace and glory of God's Name, and remove thou my anxiety. Pause.
I see not any other place of shelter. Growing weary I have fallen at Thy door.
Heed not my account for I can only be saved by ignoring the account. Save though, me, the meritless one, O Lord.
Ever pardoner art Thou, ever Beneficent, Thou O Lord, givest support to all.
Slave Nanak follows the way of saints, Save him Thou, O Lord this time (in this life).
Todi 5th Guru.
When my tongue sings the praise of the Lord, the ocean of virtues;
then peace, poise and delight well up in my mind and all the sorrows flee away. Pause.
Whatever thou askest, that, that all, thou shalt obtain by serving the Lord's feet, the Abode of delight.
Thou shalt be free both from birth and death and shalt cross the terrible world ocean.
Searching and searching, I have ascertained this reality that Lord's slave is dedicated unto Him.
O Nanak, if thou desirest eternal bliss, remember thou ever the Omnipresent Lord.
Todi 5th Guru.
By Guru's g race, the slanderer has been worded off.
Supreme Lord, the Master, become merciful and He tore his head with Shiva's arrow. Pause.
Death and death's noose can stare me not, as I have owned the path of truth.
The jewel of the Lord's Name, I have earned as my wealth which exhausts not by eating and spending.
In an instant the slanderer got reduced to ashes, and thus obtained the fruit of his action.
Slave Nanak tells the hidden thing, and the whole wide world sees it.
Todi 5th Guru.
O miser, thy body and mind are filled with sin.
In the society of saints, remember Thou the Lord. God alone can cover thy sins. Pause.
When many holes occur in the ship, they cannot be plugged with hands.
Contemplate thou on Him to whom the ship belong, and through whose grace the counterfeit also cross over with the genuine.
Man wants to lift a mountain with words, but that remains stationed at that very place.
O Lord, has no strength and power, O Lord, do Thou preserve him who has sought Thy protection.
Todi 5th Guru.
Dwell thou on the Lord's lotus feet in thy mind.
The medicine of God's Name is said to destroy with an axe the diseases of bile and phlegm. Pause.
The Lord is the Remover of the Three fevers. He is the Destroyer of distress and the stock of peace.
No obstacle befalls him, who prayeth before his Lord.
By saints' grace, the Primal Being has become my physician. The Lord alone is the Doer of all deeds.
O Nanak, the Lord God is the Giver of perfect peace and support of the child-like, innocently minded persons.
Todi 5th Guru.
Ever and at all times, meditate thou on the Lord Master's Name.
Showing His mercy, the supreme Lord Master has Himself made the town flourish again. Pause.
He, to whom I belong, has, again, taken care of me, and I am rid of sorrow and suffering.
Giving His hand, the Lord has Himself protected me, His slave, by becoming my mother and father.
God, the Lord, has showered His benediction and the men and other beings have beings have become kind to me.
Nanak has sought the protection of the Destroyer of distress of distress, great is who's glory.
Todi 5th Guru.
O Lord, I seek the refuge of Thy court.
O Lord, the Destroyer of myriad of sins, who else can save me without Thee. Pause.
Searching and searching in various ways, I have thought over all the objects of life.
Through the saints society alone, the sublime status is obtained. Bound to and engrossed in mammon, the man loses the game.
Meeting with the dear Guru, the great person, my soul has come to bear love with the Lord's lotus feet.
Remembering and ever remembering the Lord, Nanak makes merry and all his aliments are over.
Todi 5th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Alas! O fool, alas! thou cling to mammon and thy love with it is nor at all insignificant.
What thou deemest thine own, it not thine. Pause.
Thy Lord, thou contemplatest not even for a trice.
What belongs to another, that thou deemest thine own.
The Name which is thy real companion, that, thou enshrinest not in thy mind.
What thou has to leave, with that, thou hast attached thy mind.
Thou amasseth that, which shall keep thee hungry and thirsty.
Thou hast not obtained the viaticum of the ambrosial Name.
Thou hast fallen into the well of lust, wrath, and worldly love.
Nanak, rare is the person, who is saved through the Guru's grace.
Todi 5th Guru.
I have but one God, my Lord.
I recognise not any other. Pause.
By great good fortune, I have found my Guru.
The Guru has implanted the God's Name within me.
For me, the Lord God's meditation is my real austerity, fasting and religious rituals.
Contemplating the Lord God, I gather all joy and peace.
The Lord's praise is my culture, occupation and caste.
Hearing the singing of praise of the Lord, I feel great joy.
Says Nanak, the man who has attained to his Lord,
gathers every thing in his home.
Todi 5th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By true Guru's grace is He obtained.
My beautiful mind desires the love of the Lord.
By mere words God's love wells up not. Pause.
Searching for a sight of Him, I look in from lane to lane.
On meeting the Guru, my doubt is dispelled.
This wisdom, I have obtained from the saints, as per the pre-ordained destiny writ on my brow.
In this way, Nanak has seen God with his eyes.
Todi 5th Guru.
O my soul, my ignorant soul is in the grip of pride.
Such is the will of my reverend Lord,
that mammon has gulped me like a witch. Pause.
More, more and yet more wealth, the man ever hankers after, but unless destined to receive, how can he obtain it?
The Lord's wealth, with that, the man is entangled. O! the unfortunate one attaches himself to the fire of desires.
O man, listen thou to the holy men's advice. Thus shall all thine sins be entirely washed off.
He, who is destined to receive in his skirt, the Lord's blessing. He, O slave Nanak enters not the womb again.
Todi 5th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is he obtained.
Such beneficence, my sire Lore has done unto me.
The five evils and the ailment of ego, these, He has all banished away from my body. Pause.
Shattering my shackles and freeing me from vices, He has enshrined the Guru's word within my mind.
The Lord dwelt not on my beauty or deformity, but lovingly held me and thus I got immersed in His love.
The intervening curtain is torn off and I see my Beloved. My jovial mind is now pleased and satiated.
His is the House, He is the Master and He, the Lord. Nanak is but a dependent of His.
Todi 5th Guru.
O my, mother, my mind is in love with my Master.
This, for me, is the religious deed and creed and this, the worship, The meditation of the Lord's Name is the pure way of life. Pause.
Ever to see the vision of the Lord, is the support of my life breath and also my life's wealth.
On the way and the wharf, the viaticum of the Lord's love is with me. My soul, I have make the Lord's companion.
By saints grace, my mind has become immaculate and the Lord has mercifully make me His own.
Contemplating and ever contemplating the Lord, Nanak has obtained peace. From the very beginning and the beginning of ages, the Lord has been the Friend of His saints.
Todi 5th Guru.
My sire Lord, meet Thou, with me. Thou art my very life.
Be Thou not out of my mind, even for a moment and bless Thine devoted slave with Thy perfect beneficence. Pause.
Dispel my doubt and save me, O my accomplished and Omniscient loved Lord, the searcher of hearts.
For me, the wealth of the name is worth millions of empires. My adorable Lord, bless Thou, me, with Thy ambrosial look.
My tongue sings Thy praise, eight watches of the day, and O powerful Lord, Thine praise fully satiates my ears.
Seek I Thy refuge, O the Life giving Lord. Ever, yea, forever Nanak is a sacrifice unto Thee.
Todi 5th Guru.
O My Master, I am the dust of Thine feet.
O my Beloved Lord, compassionate to the meek and the soul-charmer, mercifully fulfil Thou my aspiration. Pause.
In ten directions, Thy praise is permeating, O Thou Inner-Knower and Ever present.
They, who sing Thy praise, O Creator, those persons die not ever nor grieve.
In the saints society, vanish the worldly affairs and entanglements and all the sorrows come to an end.
The comforts of wealth and this mind's revelments, without God, Nanak deems them as false.
Todi 5th Guru.
My mother, my mind thirsts for the Lord.
I can live not, even for a moment without my Beloved. Within my mind is the desire to see His vision. Pause.
Contemplate I, the Name of the immaculate Creator and all the sins of my mind and body are washed off.
Imperishable, Omnipresent and Peace-Giver is the Transcendent Lord. Immaculate is whose praise.
By saints grace, my desires are fulfilled and Lord. the Treasure of virtues, has mercifully met me.
Peace, poise and pleasure have welled up in my mind and millions of suns shins for me. O Nanak.
Todi 5th Guru.
The Lord God is the Purifier of sinners.
God is the soul, life-breath and the Giver of honour and peace. He is the Searcher of hearts and it pleasing to my mind. Pause.
The Lord is beauteous, wise, clever all knowing. The saints sing the praises of Him who abides within His slave's mind.
Of Immaculate form, the peerless Lord is. The body is the field of actions; What the mortal sows, that he eats.
I am amazed and surprised by Lord's wonder. Any other second, I deem not equal to Him.
Uttering and uttering the Lord's praises, with my tongue, live I. Slave Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Him.
Todi 5th Guru.
O my mother, the mammon is deceitful.
Without meditation of the World-Lord, it is like the fire of straw, the fleeting shadow of cloud and the running waters of flood. Pause.
Renounce thou excessive wisdom and cleverness and joining both thy hands, walk the saints way.
Remember thou the Lord, the Inner-Knower. This is the sublime fruit of the human birth.
The pious persons preach Divine knowledge but the unfortunate fool understands it not.
Slave Nanak is absorbed in the Lord's love and devotion. Contemplating on God, the filth of sins is burnt.
Todi 5th Guru.
O mother, to me, sweet are the Guru's feet.
Through the great good fortunate, the Transcendent Lord has blessed me with them. Millions of fruits are obtained by seeing the Guru's vision. Pause.
Singing the praise of the Eternal and Imperishable Lord, Stubbornness, lust wrath and pride vanish.
They, who are imbued with the true love, become eternally stable and birth and death them not again.
Without God's meditation, all the joys and pleasures, that are there, I deem them false, through the saints grace.
Slave Nanak has obtained the jewel of the Name. Yea, without the name all depart, cheated of human life.
Todi 5th Guru.
In the saints congregation, I contemplate the Lord God's Name.
Day and night, I enjoy the bliss of Equipoise. My destiny's seed has sprouted well. Pause.
By The greatest good fortunate, I have met the Perfect Guru, whose limit and bounds cannot be knows.
Holding His slave by the hand, He has pulled him out of the world's ocean of poison.
By Guru's word, my births and deaths have ended, and I shall, no more, see the door of pain.
Nanak has grasped the Lord's protection and he, again and again, makes an obeisance unto Him.
Todi 5th Guru.
O mother, my mind has obtained peace.
I, now enjoy the pleasures and comforts of millions of dominions. Remembering God, all my distresses are dispelled. Pause.
By Lord's meditation, the sins of myriads of births are eradicated and man's body and mind attain peace.
Seeing Lord's Beauteous Form, my aspiration is fulfilled and attaining His sight, my eternal hunger is satiated.
God's Name is the four cardinal boons, eight supreme supernatural powers, the elysian cow and the celestial tree.
O Nanak, grasping the protection of the Ocean of peace, thou shall not, again suffer the pain of birth, death and womb.
Todi 5th Guru.
The Lord God's feet, I have enshrined within my mind and heart.
Contemplating my Master, the True Guru, mine affairs have been adjusted. Pause.
Alms, charity and worship lie in the praise of the Supreme Lord Master. This is the essence of wisdom.
Singing the praise of the Unapproachable and Infinite Lord, I have obtained immeasurable peace.
The persons, whom the Transcendent Lord, once, makes His own, their merits and demerits He, again, considers not.
Hearing remembering and contemplating the Name jewel, live I Nanak wears the Lord around his neck.
Todi 9th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
What should I say regarding my baseness?
I am entangled in the love of gold and woman and have not sung the Lord's praise. Pause.
Deeming the false world to be true, I have contracted love with that.
I have not, ever, remembered the Friend of the poor, who shall be my companion and helper.
Night and day, I remain absorbed in the worldly valuables and my mind's filth forsakes me not.
Says Nanak, without seeking the Lord's refuge I cannot now obtain salvation in any other way.
Todi Hymns of the saints.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Some say the Lord is near and some say He is afar.
This amounts to saying that the fish of water is up climbing a date-tree.
O man, why talkest thou nonsense?
He, who finds the Lord, conceals he this fact. Pause.
Becoming a Pandit thou utterest the Vedas,
but, ignorant Namdev knows only the Lord.
Whose stain of sin, pray, ever lingers, who uttereth the Lord's Name?
The sinners become pure by uttering the Lord's Name. Pause.
In the company of the Lord's slave Namdev has acquired faith.
He has ceased to fast on the eleventh lunar day. Why should he go no pilgrimage to shrines.
Says Namdev, I have now become a man of good deeds and good thoughts.
Who has ever not gone to heaven by uttering the Lord's Name, under Guru's instruction?
This verse narrates the play of three good illustration. Pause.
In the potter's home are pots and in the King home, the she-camels.
In a Brahman's house are widows. Say thou the widows, she-camels and pots.
A grocer's home has asafoetida and the he-buffaloe has horn on the forehead.
In Shiva's temple is a lingam, Yea, say thou the lingam, the horn and asafetida.
Oil is in an oilman's house and there is creeper in the forest.
Plantain is in the gardener's home. Say thou plantain, creeper and oil.
The Lord is within the saints mind and Krishna in Gokal.
God is in Namdev, Say thou the Lord, Krishna and God.
Rag Bairari 4th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Hear thou, O man, the inexpressible discourse of God's Name.
Under Guru's instruction, meditate thou on God, thy Lord Master and thou shalt obtain wealth, wisdom, supernatural powers and comforts. Pause.
Myriads of legends, mythical books and six schools of philosophy, sings the sublime praise of the Lord.
Shiva and thirty three millions of gods contemplate the Lord, but know not His secret.
The godly men, God's attendants and celestial singer sing His praise, and sings of Him all the creation, that he has created.
Nanak, they, to whom God shows mercy, become the good saints of the Lord's God.
Bairari 4th Guru.
O man, they, who, meeting with the holy men, sing the Lord's praise,
they are blessed with the gift of the Lord God's jewel, the Lord's sublime jewel, by the Guru, the True Guru. Pause.
Offer I my soul, body and everything to the man, who recites to me the Lord master's Name.
Surrender I, my wealth riches and property to him, who unites me with God, my Friend.
When the World-Lord. showed me a little mercy, even for a moment, then dwelt I on my God's the Lord Master's praise.
The Lord Master has met slave Nanak and his pain of the ailment of ego is eliminated.
Bairari 4th Guru.
The Lord's slave sings the praise of the Lord's Name.
If, some one slanders the Lord's servant, he renounces not his merit. Pause.
What-so-ever the Lord does, that, He does Himself, God, by Himself does all the deeds.
The Lord Master Himself imparts understanding and Himself the Lord makes man utter the words.
God Himself evolves the world of five elements and Himself He infuses the five senses therein.
O slave Nanak, the Lord Himself unites man with the True Guru and Himself He settles the strifes.
Bairari 4th Guru.
O my soul, contemplating the Lord's Name, emancipation is obtained.
God destroys all the sins of millions man across the fearful world ocean. Pause.
The Fear-free Uninimical and Formless God, the Lord Master abides in the body village.
God live near, but is seen not. By the Guru's counsel the Lord is obtained.
God Himself is the Banker, Jeweler, jewel and gem and He Himself has make the entire expanse.
Nanak, he to whom God shows mercy deals in His Name, He alone is the true banker and the true trader.
Bairari 4th Guru.
O man, meditate thou on the Immaculate, Formless Lord.
Ever and at all times, dwell, whose extent and limit are not know. Pause.
When hanging upside down, thou wert absorbed in the Lord's love in the pit of fire, He preserved thee in the womb.
O my soul, serve thou such Lord God, who shall be thy Deliverer in the end.
He, within whose mind my Lord Master abides, make thou obeisance unto that person.
By God's grace alone, the Lord's meditation and the support of His Name are obtained, O Nanak.
Bairari 4th Guru.
O my soul day repeat and remember thou the Lord Master's Name.
Thou shalt obtain the fruits which thou desires and pain shall touch thee not, again. Pause.
That is the true meditation, true austerity, true fasting and true worship, whereby affection with the Lord's is contracted.
Without Lord's love every other love is false, in an instant, it is all forgotten.
Thou art Infinite and Master of all the powers. Thy worth cannot even be slightly described.
O reverend Lord, Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary. As Thou likest, so Thou unite him with Thee.
Bairari Measure. 5th Guru.
There is One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Associating with the pious persons, sing thou the Lord's praise.
Thus shalt thou be rid of the pain of millions of births. Pause.
What thy heart desires, that is like-wise obtained.
In their mercy, the saints bless me with the God's Name.
All happiness and greatness abide in the Lord's Name.
By Guru's grace, Nanak, has obtained this understanding.
Tilang Measure. 1st Guru.
There is but One God. True is His Name and creative His Personality. He is without fear, without enmity, Immortal in form, beyond birth and self-illumined By Guru's grace is He obtained.
I utter One supplication before Thee. Hear is Thou, O my Creator.
Thou art the true, great, merciful and faultless cherisher.
The world is a perishable place, Know it for certain in thy mind, O man!
Azrail, death's courier, has caught me by the hair of my head, yet I know it not in the least, in my heart. Pause.
The wife, son, father and brothers no one shall hold my hand.
At last when I fall and the time of last prayer is reached, there shall be no one to rescue me.
Night and day, I wonder in avarice and think of doing evil.
I do not, ever, do good deeds. Like this is my condition.
I am unfortunate as also miserly, negligent, shameless and without
Thine fear, O Lord, Says Nanak, I am Thy slave and the dust of the feet of Thine servants.
Tilang 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
O Lord, Thy fear is my hemp and my mind is the leather pouch.
I have become an intoxicated hermit.
My hands are the begging bowl and I crave for Thine vision, O God.
Day by day, beg I at Thy door.
For Thy sight, I make a mumper's call.
Bless Thou, me, Thine door's beggar, with alms, O Lord. Pause.
Saffron, flowers, deer's musk and gold embellish all the bodies.
Like Chandas, such is the quality of Lord's slave that they render fragrant one and all.
No one calls, clarified butter and silk polluted.
Such is the saint, be he of high or low caste.
They, who make obeisance unto Thy Name and remain absorbed in Thy love;
O Nanak, I beg at their door for alms.
Tilang 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
My beloved, this body cloth mercerized by worldly attachments is dyed in greed.
My beloved, such a cloak pleases not my Groom How can the bride go to His couch?
I am a sacrifice, O Beneficent Lord, I am a sacrifice unto Thee.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who take Thy name.
They, who utter Thine name, unto them, I am ever a sacrifice. Pause.
If the body becomes the dyer's vat, the name is put into it as madder,
and the Lord, the Dyer, Himself dyes, then, such a colour would appear, as had never been seen O beloved.
They, whose cloaks are thus dyed, O Beloved, the spouse is ever near them.
O Lord, somehow bless Nanak with the dust of those persons. O Sire Nanak makes this supplication.
The Lord Himself creates, Himself stains and Himself He caste the merciful glance.
Nanak, if the bride becomes pleasing to her Bridegroom, He enjoys her of His own accord.
Tilang 1st Guru.
O silly woman, why takest thou pride?
Why enjoyest thou not the love of God, in Thy own home?
Thy Bridegroom is quite near, O foolish bride, What for searchest thou abroad?
Put the slave needles of God's fear into thine eyes and make the decoration of the Lord's love.
Then alone shall thou be known as devoted wife, attached to thy spouse, if thou bearest Him love.
What can the silly young bride do, if she pleases not her Groom?
Though she may make good many implorations, ye, such a bride cannot obtain her spouse's mansion.
Without good deeds, nothing can be obtained though she may run about a great deal.
Inebriated with avarice, covetousness and pride, she is engrossed in worldliness.
By these things the Groom is obtained not, Ignorant is the young bride.
Go and ask the chaste brides, by what actions is the Spouse obtained.
Whatever the Lord does, accept that as good and do away with thy cleverness and will.
Attach thou thy mind to His feet, by whose love the wealth of emancipation is attained.
Do thou that, what is spouse bids thee. Surrender thy body and soul to Him and apply thou such a perfume.
Thus says the true wife, O sister. By these means the Bridegroom is obtained.
Efface thy ownself and then shalt thou obtain the Groom. What can other cleverness avail?
The day when the Spouse looks with grace is of signal accounts, and the bride obtains nine treasures.
She, who is the beloved of her Bridegroom, is the happy wife, Nanak, she is the queen of all.
Like this she remains imbued with pleasure, intoxicated with glee and day and night absorbed in the Lord's love.
She is spoken of as comely, beauteous and intelligent and she alone is wise.
Tilang 1st Guru.
As the word of the Lord comes to me, so do I utter, O Lalo.
Bringing the marriage party of sin, Babar has hastened from Kabul and demands perforce the gift of our Land, etc O Lalo.
Modesty and righteousness both has vanished, and falsehood moves about as the leader, O Lalo.
The function of the Qazis and the Brahmans is over and the Satan now reads the marriage rites.
The Muslim women read the Quran and in suffering call upon God, O Lalo.
The Hindu women of high caste and others of low caste, may also be put in the same account, O Lalo.
Nanak, the eulogies of murder are sung, and the saffron of blood is sprinkled, O Lalo.
Nanak sings the glories of the Lord in the city of corpses and mentions this affair.
He, who has made the mortals and attached them to pleasures, sits apart and alone, and beholds them.
He, the Lord is true, true is His decision, and He issues command based on true justice.
The body cloth shall be torn into pieces and shreds. The shall Hindustan remember my word.
Coming in seventy eight (Vikram), they (the Mughals) shall depart in ninety seven and then another disciple of brave Man shall arise.
Nanak utters the word of truth and proclaims truth at the right time.
Tilang 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
All come by the Master's command and his order extends over all.
True is the Lord and true His play. He, the Lord Master, is pervading everywhere.
Praise the True Lord. God, the Master is over all.
No one is His equal: of what account am I? Pause.
Air, water, earth and sky, these the Lord has make His home and mansion.
The Lord Himself is contained amongst all. Say, what can be accounted false?
Tilang 4th Guru.
The evil-minded person ever does fruitless acts and is puffed up with pride.
Practising deceit and falsehood, when he brings me something then he thinks he has conquered the world.
Such is the game of the world, that, the mortal contemplates not the Lord's Name.
In a moment, all this false play shall perish. O my mind, meditate thou on the Lord. Pause.
That time comes not to my mind, when the torturous death shall come and seize me.
Nanak, the Lord redeems him, within whose mind He mercifully dwells.
Tilang 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Infusing His light into the dust, the Lord has make the universe and the world.
The sky, earth, trees and water are the Lord's creation.
O man, whatever the eye sees, is perishable.
The world is an eater of carrion, neglectful of God, and avaricious. Pause.
Like a ghost and a beast, the world kills the forbidden and eats the carrion.
Restrain thy heart, otherwise seizing thee, the Omnipotent Lord shall punish thee in hell.
The patrons, dainties, brothers, courts, lands and homes.
Tell me, of what avail shall these be to thee then, when Azrail, the death's myrmidon seizes thee.
My immaculate Lord Knows thy condition.
O Nanak, say thy prayer to the pious persons to lead thee to the right path.
Tilang 5th Guru.
Without Thee, there is not any other.
Thou art the Creator, What Thou doest, that alone happens.
Thine is the strength, and Thine the support within my mind.
Ever and ever, dwell thou on the one Lord, O Nanak.
Over all is the Beneficent supreme Lord.
Thou, O Lord art my support and Thou the mainstay. Pause.
Thou alone art, yea, Thou alone at there and Thou alone shall ever be.
O Inaccessible, Incomprehensible Lofty and Infinite Lord.
They, who serve Thee. them, no dread and distress overtake.
By Guru's grace, sing they the Lord's praise, O Nanak.
Whatever is seen, is Thine manifestation,
O my Beautiful Lord, the Treasure of merit and the Master of universe.
Remembering, contemplating and meditating on the Lord. His slave becomes like Him.
By His very grace the Lord is obtained, O Nanak.
He, who meditates on the Lord, unto Him, I am a sacrifice.
In his company, the would is saved.
Says Nanak, the Lord is the fulfiller of aspirations.
I long for the dust of the pious persons feet.
Tilang 5th Guru.
Merciful, merciful is the Lord, Merciful is my Master. My Master is Merciful.
He blessed ail the beings with His bounties. Pause.
Why waverest thou, O mortal, The Creator Himself shall protect Thee.
He, who gave thee birth, will also provide thee with sustenance.
He, who has created the world, takes care of it.
The True Cherisher is the Lord of all hearts and minds.
His Omnipotence and worth cannot be known. He is the great and care-free Lord.
O man, meditate thou on the Lord, till there is breath in thy body.
O Lord, Thou art Omnipotent, Ineffable and Inapprehensible and my soul and body are Thy capital.
In Thy mercy I attain peace, O Lord. Nanak ever makes supplication before Thee.
Tilang 5th Guru.
O Creator, seeing Thy creation I have become Thy devotee.
Thou alone art my spiritual and temporal Lord. Thou, O God, art detached from the entire creation. Pause.
In a moment, Thou makest and destroyest, Wondrous are Thine manifestations.
Who knows Thine plays? Thou art the light in darkness.
My compassionate God, Thou Thyself art the Master of the beings and the Lord of the world.
He who contemplate Thee, day and night, why should he go to hell?
Azrial, death's myrmidon is the friend of the mortal who has Thine support, O Lord.
All his sing are pardoned and he, Thy slave, sees Thine sight.
All the worldly things are for the present Thee, O Lord and now he ever sings Thine praises alone.
On meeting the Guru, Nanak has understood Thee, O Lord and now he ever sings Thine praises alone.
Tilang 5th Guru.
O wise friend, ever think, thou of thy Lord in thy mind.
Enshrine in thy body and soul the love of the true sovereign, the Emancipate from bondage. Pause.
The worth of seeing the Lord's vision cannot be evaluated.
Thou art the immaculate Cherisher and Thou Thyself art the great and immeasurable Lord.
Give me assistance, O Chivalrous Lord, for Thou and Thou alone art.
My Creator Lord, by Thy power Thou didst create the world. Thou art Nanak's mainstay.
Tilang 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's is He obtained.
He who has make the world, also looks after it. What more shall I say, O brother?
He who has laid out the garden, He Himself Knows and Himself acts.
Embrace thou the meditation, the meditation of the Beloved, by which peace is ever obtained. Pause.
She who enjoys not her spouse with love, regrets afterwards.
She wrings her hands and beats her head, when the night passes away.
No good accrues from repentance when the life ends.
Then alone shall she have the chance of enjoying her Beloved, when her turn comes, again.
The True bride obtains her Husband, she is superior to me.
Those merits, I possess not; whom should I blame.
Those mates, who have enjoyed their spouse, to them I shall go to ask.
I shall touch their feet and supplicate them to show me the path.
Nanak, if the bride obeys her spouse's order, applies His fear as her sandal,
and performs the incantation of merits, then obtains she her Beloved.
She, who meets with her Lord the heart's way, ever abides with Him. That is called the real meeting.
However much she may desire is, she meets Him not through mere words.
The mental blends with the metal again and love attracts love.
When by Guru's grace, man obtains true understanding, then finds, he, the Fearless Lord.
An oronard of betel may be in the house, but the donkey knows not its worth.
If one knows, the nature of fragrance, then alone can one appreciate the flower.
He alone who quaffs the Name Nectar, ends his doubts and wanderings.
He easily remains blended with the Lord and obtains the immortal status.
Tilang 4th Guru.
God's sermons and tales, my friend, the Guru, has related to me.
A sacrifice am I unto my Guru. Unto the Guru, I am a sacrifice.
Come and see me, O thou the disciple of the Guru, come and meet me thou, Thou art my Guru's beloved. Pause.
God's praise are pleasing to God. Them, I have obtained from the Guru.
They, who obey the Guru, will, unto them, I am a sacrifice, yea, a sacrifice.
They, who behold the beloved True Guru, unto them am I devoted.
I am ever a sacrifice unto those, who perform the Guru's service.
Thy Name, O Lord God, is the Destroyer of suffering.
By The service of the Guru, the name is received. It is though the Guru that emancipation is obtained.
They, who contemplate the Lord's Name, acceptable become those persons.
Unto them, Nanak is a sacrifice and for ever and aye he is devoted.
O God, the Lord Master, that alone is Thine praise, which is pleasing to Thee.
The Guru-wards, who serve the Beloved Lord, they obtain Him as their reward.
They, who cherish love for their Lord, their soul is ever attuned to God.
Meditating and ever dwelling upon the Beloved, they live and they gather God's Name.
The Guru-wards, who serve the Beloved Lord, unto, I am a sacrifice.
Thy themselves are saved along with their families and through them the whole world is delivered.
My Beloved Guru has served the Lord, Blessed, blessed is the Guru, the True Guru.
The Guru has shown me the God's way, the Guru has done me the good, yea, the supreme good.
The Guru's disciples, who serve the Guru, are the blessed beings.
Slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto them Unto them, he is ever, ever devoted.
The Guru-ward mates and companions, they are pleasing to God Himself.
In God's court, they are clothed with the robe of honour. The Lord hugs them to His bosom.
The Guru-wards, who meditate on Thy name, O Lord, bless Thou me with their vision.
I wash their feet and stirring repeatedly the wash of their feet, I drink it heartily.
They, who eat betel-leaf and betel-nut and apply red-paint to their lips,
but contemplate not ever on the Lord God, them the death's myrmidon seizes and takes them away.
They who contemplate God's Name and God and keep Him clasped to their mind and heart,
Death's courier draws not near them. The Guru's disciples are beloved of the Guru.
God's Name is a treasure, but some rare one comes to know, it through the Guru.
Nanak, they who meet with the True Guru, enjoy peace and pleasure.
The True Guru is said to be the bountiful donor. In his mercy. he bestows gifts.
I am ever a sacrifice unto the Guru, who has blest me with the Lord's name.
Blest! blest! is the Guru, who imparts to me the Lord's message.
Seeing, yea, seeing the Guru and the body of the Great True Guru, I am ever in bloom.
The Guru's tongue utters Divine Nectar and is adorned with God's Name.
The Sikhs, who hear and obey the Guru, all their cravings depart.
People talk of the God's way. Pray, tell me, by What means can I tread upon it?
My Lord God, I can tread upon this path, by taking with me the viaticum of Thee and Thy Name.
The Guru-wards, who meditate on the Lord, they are wealthy and very wise.
I am ever a sacrifice unto the True Guru and am absorbed in the Guru's hymns.
Thou art the Master, Thou the Lord and Thou my sovereign.
If to so pleases Thee, then alone can Thy devotional service be performed, O Lord. Thou art an ocean of merits.
Himself the Lord is manifest In many forms, and Himself He is one form alone.
Whatever pleases Him, O Nanak, that alone is the good thing.
Tilang 9th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is He obtained.
O mortal, if thou hast any understanding, then remember thou Thy Lord, night and day.
Every moment, life is passing away like the water from the cracked pitcher. Pause.
Why singest thou not the praise of God, O ignorant fool?
Attached to false avarice, thou thinkest not of death.
No harm has yet been done, If thou even now singest Lord's praise.
Says, Nanak, by meditating on Him, thou shalt obtain the sublime state of fearlessness.
Tilang 9th Guru.
Awake, O man, be awake; why art thou sleeping heedlessly.
The body, that was born with thee, even that shall not go with thee. Pause.
The mother, father, sons and relatives, to whom thou bearest love,
they will, when the soul separates from it.
Know thou for certain that the affairs of the world last only till one is alive.
Nanak, sing thou the praise of the Lord, Everything is like a dream.
Tilang 9th Guru.
O my soul, sing thou the praise of God, who is thy real friend.
The time is passing away. listen carefully to what I say. Pause.
Thou hast embraced, immense love for riches, chariots, wife and dominions.
When death's noose encircles thy neck, all shall become the property of others.
Knowing full well, O mad man, thou hast spoiled thine case.
Thou shirkest not from committing sins, nor dismiss thou thy ego.
The way the Guru instructs thee, hearken thou to that, O brother.
Nanak loudly proclaims "Grasp thou the protection of thy Lord".
Tilang The saints hymns. Sire Kabir.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace is he obtained.
The Vedas and the four Semitic scriptures are unnecessary, O brother, if the mind's anxiety is not removed.
If thou fix thy mind on God even for a moment, then the Lord shall be seen just present before thee.
O man, search thy heart every day and wander not in perplexity.
This world is a magic show. In it there is not on is hold thy hand. Pause.
Reading and reading false-hood, the mortals are delighted and being ignorant talk nonsense.
My just True Creator is within His creation. He is not the Krishna of black form.
In the tenth gate flows the stream of celestial bliss Thou ought to have taken a bath in it.
Ever perform thou the Lord's service. wear these spectacles.
The Lord is the purest of the pure. Thou mayest entrain a doubt if there be another.
Kabir, mercy wells up from the Merciful Lord. He alone knows, who does all this.
Sire Namdev.
Of me, the blind one, Thy Name, O Creator is the only mainstay.
I am poor, I am meek and Thy Name is my only support.
Bounteous, Beneficent and wealthy Thou art, O Lord.
Thou art ever present within and before me.
Thou art the river Thou the Giver and Thou art exceedingly wealthy.
Thou alone givest and takest, there is not another.
Thou art wise, thou art the beholder What conception can I form of Thee.
O God, the Lord of Name, Thou art the Pardoner.
Hallo! my friend, Hallo my friend, what glad tidings bringest thou?
Devoted, O devoted, devoted, O devoted am I unto Thee. Good is Thine forced labour and exalted is Thy Name. Pause.
Where hast Thou come? Where hast Thou been and whither art Thou going?
Tell Thou the truth, in this sacred city of Dwarka.
Handsome is Thy turban and sweet is Thy speech.
How can there be a Mughal in the city of Dwarka?
Thou alone art the Lord of the many thousands of worlds.
Like-wise is my King of the sable hue.
Thou art the Lord of horse, (the Sun), the Lord of elephant (Indra) and King of men (Brahma).
Thou art the Lord of Nama, the sovereign of all and the Giver of salvation.
There is but One God. True is His Name, creative His personality and immortal His form. He is without fear, sans enmity and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Rag Suhi 1st Guru. Chaupadas.
Sitting down wash and perfume the vessel, then go to bring the milk.
In the milk of good actions, add the ferment of meditation and then without a desire leave it to curdle.
Contemplate thou the one Name.
Unfruitful are all other affairs. Pause.
Make thy mind the hand-pieces and again being ever-awake the cord to churn the milk.
If the Name is uttered with the tongue, then is the curd churned. In this way thou shalt gather the ambrosial butter.
Make thy mind, which is washed in the tank of truth, the can for Lord's abode and make the leaf offerings of devotion to please Him.
The servant, who serves his Lord, by offering his very life he in this way remains absorbed in His Lord.
The uttereres utter Thy praises and by uttering and uttering they depart, Equal to Thee, there is not another.
Devotionless slave Nanak prays that I may sing the praises of that True Lord.
Suhi 1st Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The Lord abidest within the mind. Wander thou not abroad.
Forsaking Nectar, why eatest thou poison?
Embrace such gnosis, O my soul,
that thou mayest become the True Lord's slave. Pause.
Every one speaks of gnosis and meditation,
but bound with the bonds, the whole world wanders about.
He, who performs the Lord's service, becomes a servant of His.
He the Lord is pervading the water, dry land and firmament.
I am not good and no one is bad.
Prays Nanak, He the Lord alone, is the mortal's Saviour.
Suhi 1st Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Bronze is bright and shining, but by rubbing, its sable blackness appears.
By washing its impurity is removed not, even though it be washed a hundred times.
They alone are the friends who travel with me as I go along,
and are seen standing there, where the account is called for. Pause.
Houses, mansions and sky-scrapers, painted on all sides,
when hollow from within, are like the crumbled and useless ruins.
The herons arrayed in white feathers abide in places of pilgrimage.
Tearing and rending they eat the living beings so they are not called white.
My body is like the tree of Bombax heptaphyllum. Beholding me, the mortals are mistaken.
Its fruits serve no purpose. Its qualities my body possesses.
The blind man is carrying a heavy load and the mountainous journey is long.
I see with my eyes, but find not the way. How can I ascend and cross the mountain?
Without the Name, of what avail are other services, virtues and clevernesses?
O Nanak contemplate thou the Lord's name wherewith thou shalt be released from thy shackles.
Suhi 1st Guru.
Make thou the raft of the Lord's meditation and arduous toil, Wherewith thou shalt cross the flowing stream.
Thy path shall be so comfortable, as if there is no ocean and no over-flowing.
Thy Name alone is the madder, with which my clock is dyed, My Loved Lord, this colour is everlasting. Pause.
The dear friends have departed. How shall they meet the Lord.
If they have virtue in bag, that Lord will unite them with Himself.
Once united, the mortal separates not again, if however he be really united.
he, the True Lord puts an end to this coming and going.
She, who effaces and obliterates her ego, sews for herself a cloak to please her Groom.
By Guru's instruction, she obtains the fruit of the ambrosial Gurbani of the Lord.
Says Nanak, O my Mates, my Bridegroom is very darling unto me.
We are Lord's hand-maidens. He is our True Husband.
Suhi 1st Guru.
They, within whose vessel (mind) is the Lord's love; them the Lord regenerates.
He gives them the gift of peace and makes them forget distress.
There is absolutely no doubt, that He will assuredly save them.
The Guru comes to meet those, for whom such destiny is recorded.
He blesses them with the instruction of the God's Nectar-Name.
They who walk in the True Guru's will never wander begging.
He, who lives close to his Lord's mansion; why should he bow to another?
The porter at the Lord's gate, asks him absolutely no question.
One is redeemed at the bidding of him on whom is the Lord's grace.
The Lord Himself sends and recalls the mortals. There is none else to counsel Him.
He Himself demolishes, constructs and creates. He the Lord, knows everything.
Nanak, the Name is the gift, which the Merciful Master makes unto him, to whom He extends His mercy.
Suhi 1st Guru.
Sublime is the vessel, which pleases Him.
An extremely filthy vessel becomes not wholesome by washing.
Through the Guru, the mortal obtains understanding.
When washed in this way then the vessel is rendered clean.
The understanding to distinguish between good and bad, the Lord Himself grants.
Let on one think, that he will obtain a place of rest, hereafter.
As are the deeds, man does, so would he become.
Nectar is the Lord's Name and he Himself blesses the mortal with it.
The trumpets play in the glory of him, who embellishing his life, departs with honour.
What to talk of the world of poor mortals, his renown shall resound the three worlds through.
Nanak, he himself shall be blissful and shall save all his lineage.
Suhi 1st Guru.
The renunciator practises renunciation and the glutton continues eating.
He who is a penitent practises penance and bathes and rubs himself at the pilgrim-places.
I wish to hear Thine tiding, O Love, if some one sits and utters it to me. Pause.
As the man sows, so reaps he and whatever he earns, that he eats.
Hereafter, no account is called from him, who goes thither with the Name's flag.
As are the deeds the mortal does, so is he called.
The breath, which is drawn without the Lord's meditation; that breath goes in vain.
If there be some one to purchase it, I shall sell, sell off this body of mine for my Lord.
Nanak, of no avail is the body, which enshrines not the True Name.
Suhi 1st Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Yoga is not in the patched coat, nor the Yoga is in staff, nor Yoga is in smearing the body with ashes
Yoga consists not ear-rings, or in shaven head and Yoga not even in the blowing of horn
Abide pure amidst the worldly impurities, Thus shalt thou find the way to Yoga.
By mere words Yoga is obtained not.
He is called a Yogi who looks upon all mortals with the same eye and deems them as equal. Pause.
Yoga consists not in wandering to yonder tombs, or crematoriums , or sitting in trance.
Yoga consists not in wandering in native and foreign lands, nor in bathing at places of pilgrimage.
Abide thou pure amid the worldly impurities. Thus shalt thou find the way of Yoga.
If man meets with the True Guru, then is his doubts dispelled and the wandering mind is restrained.
It rains nectar, celestial music plays and from within his mind, man obtains gnosis.
Remain thou pure amid impurities. Like this shalt thou find the way of Yoga.
Nanak in the midst of life be thou in death, Practise thou such a Yoga.
When the horn blows without being the fearless status.
When man remains detached amidst worldly attachments, then attains he the way of Yoga.
Suhi 1st Guru.
What is the scale, and what are the weights? What assayer shall I call for Thee, O Lord?
Who is the Guru, from whom I should receive instruction and by whom should I have thine worth appraised?
O my venerable beloved, I know not Thy limit.
Thou art fully contained in water, dry land nether and upper regions. Thou Thyself art pervading everywhere. Pause.
My soul is the scale, the consciousness the weights and the performance of Thy service is my jeweler.
Within my mind I weigh the spouse, In this way I fix my attention.
Thou Thyself art the tongue of the balance, the weights and the balance. Thou Thyself art the weighman.
Thou Thyself beholdest, Thyself Thou understandest and Thou Thyself art the Dealer.
The blind of low caste, and the stranger soul comes but for a moment and departs in a trice.
In its companionship Nanak abides. How can he, the fool, attain to Thee, O Lord?
Suhi Measure 4th Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Through the instruction of the Guru, the Preceptor of the preceptors, my soul ponders on the Lord's Name.
The desires of my mind and body are all fulfilled and my dread of death is all dispelled.
O my soul, sing thou the praise of the Lord God's Name.
Through Guru's pleasure, the soul is instructed and drinks God's elixir in draughts. Pause.
Sublime is the True Guru's congregation, which sings the praise of my Lord God.
Extending Thy mercy, O Lord unite me with the society of saints. I shampoo the feet of Thine slaves.
The Lord's Name, The Lord's Name rings all through. By Guru's instruction it sweetness and relish is enjoyed.
The Thirsty man has obtained God's water, the Divine-Nectar and all his thirst is quenched.
The Great True Guru is my caste and my honour. I have sold off my head to the Guru.
Slave Nanak is called the disciple of the Guru, O my Guru, preserve thou the honour of thy slave.
Suhi 4th Guru.
I utter the Name of Lord God, the supreme Being and my poverty and hosts of sins are all destroyed.
Through the Guru's words, my fear of birth and death is removed Serving the ever stable Lord, I am absorbed in Peace.
O my soul, Remember thou the very darling Name of the Lord,
Dedicating my soul and body's I have placed them before my Guru. My head, I have sold off at a dear rate. Pause.
The masters of men, the kings enjoy pleasures and relishes, but without the Name, death seizes and despatches them all.
The rod of the Righteous Judge falls on their head and when they obtain the guilt of their actions, then do they regret.
Save, save me O God, I am a worm slave of Thine, I have sought Thy protection, O my Nourisher Lord.
Bless me with the sight of Thine saint, that I may obtain peace. Fulfil my desire, O Lord as I am slave of thine.
Thou art Omnipotent and Great God, the Lord Master. O Lord, bless me Thou with the gift of humility.
Procuring the Name, serf Nanak obtains peace, I ma ever a sacrifice into Thine Name, O Lord.
Suhi 4th Guru.
God's Name is the love of God, God's love is of fast colour, like madder.
Being pleased the Guru imbues with the Lord's dye and it never fades again.
My soul enshrine thou the Love for the Lord God's Name.
Being mightily pleased the Guru has instructed me in God and God the King has doubtlessly met me. Pause.
An ignorant apostate bride repeatedly comes and goes in existences.
She contemplates not her Lord God her heart is attached with the Love of another.
I, am evil-doer, am filled with filth. O Lord, my partisan, take Thou my side.
The Guru has bathed me in the tank of Nectar and all the scum of my sins is washed off.
O God Lord, merciful to the meek and poor, unite me thou with the saints' society.
Meeting the society of saints, slave Nanak has obtained God's love and his soul and body are imbued with the love.
Suhi 4th Guru.
He, who utters God's Name and ever practises deceit; his mind becomes not pure.
He may perform many ceremonies night and day, he gets not peace even in dream.
O divine, without the Guru, the Lord's devotional service cannot be performed.
The unbleached cloth assumes not dye ever, however much all may desire it. Pause
The malady of an apostate departs not, though he may perform recitation, penance, self-discipline fasting and worship.
Within him is the ailment of excessive ego and he is ruined by another's love.
Outwardly he wears religious garb and is very clever, but his mind wanders in ten directions.
Engrossed in ego, he remembers not the Name and is cast into existences over and over again.
Nanak, he on whom is God's grace, understands Him. Such a man meditates on His Name.
By Guru's grace he knows the One Lord and is absorbed in the unique One.
Suhi 4th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
By Guru's instruction I have searched the body village,
and have found the wealth of the Lord Master's Name.
The Lord Master has enshrined peace in my mind.
On meeting the Guru, the fire of desire is extinguished in an instant and all my hunger is satiated. Pause.
O my mother, I live only by singing God's praises.
The merciful True Guru has implanted the praise of the Name within me.
I search and seek my loved Lord Master.
Meeting with the saint's congregation I have attained the Lord's Nectar.
By virtue of the pre-ordained destiny on my brow, I have obtained the Lord.
Through his pleasure, Guru Nanak unites the mortals with God, O brother.
Suhi 4th Guru.
Showing His mercy, the Lord imbues the mortal's mind with His love.
The Guru-ward merges in the Lord God's Name.
Imbued with God's love, the man enjoys spiritual bliss.
Day and night he ever remains happy and merges into the Word of the Perfect Guru. Pause.
Everyone longs for the Lord's love.
Through the Guru, deep red dye is assumed.
The stupid apostate person ever remains unmoved.
Even if he desires a hundred times, he obtains not the Lord's love.
If the Lord shows mercy, then the mortal; meet with the True Guru.
Nanak is absorbed in the divine elixir of God's love.
Suhi 4th Guru.
My tongue remains satiated with God's elixir.
The Guru-ward drinks it and merges into the spiritual bliss.
O brother saint, if thou tastest God's ambrosia;
then how can thou be enamoured of other relishes? Pause.
Under Guru's instruction, keep thou enshrined this Name-Nectar in the heart. Pause.
They who are imbued with God's elixir, abide in divine bliss.
The perverse person can taste not Lord's Nectar.
He acts in ego and suffers great punishment.
If the Guru shows mercy, then is the mortal blessed with God's elixir
Nanak obtaining the Lord's Nectar, one sings God' praise.
Suhi 4th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Remembering God, men of low caste, obtain the high dignity.
Ask Bidur, the son of a handmaiden, in whose house Krishna stayed.
O men, my brothers, hear the ineffable converse of God, by which anxiety, pain and hunger are all removed. Pause.
Ravidas, the tanner, glorified God and every moment sang His praise.
Though of fallen caste, he become sublime and the four castes came and fell at his feet
Namdev embraced affection for God. People named and called him a calico-Printer.
The Lord turned His back on Khatris and Brahmans and showed His face to Namdev.
As many as there are saints and slaves of God; the sixty-eight pilgrim-places put the frontal mark on the brow of them all.
If God, the King showers His benediction, slave Nanak shalt, night and day, touch their feet.
Suhi 4th Guru.
They alone meditate on God in their mind, on whose forehead such beginning.
What back-biting can any one do of them, on whose side my Lord the Creator is?
meditate on the Lord God, O my soul. My soul meditate thou on thy God, who is the Remover of all the afflictions of many births. Pause.
In the beginning, God bestowed on the pious persons, the ambrosial treasure of His meditation.
He, who is a fool, tries to rival them, His face is blackened here and hereafter.
They are the saints and they are His slaves, to whom the Lord's Name is sweet.
Through their service, the Lord is attained, Ashes fall on the slanderer's head,
he alone knows it, in whose house this has occurred. Ask thou Nanak, the world's Preceptor and reflect on it.
In the case of the four generations of the Gurus and from the beginning and commencement of ages none has ever obtained God by reviling. by an attendant's attitude alone one is emancipated.
Suhi 4th Guru.
Wherever the Lord is remembered, there the Lord becomes a friend and helper.
By Guru's grace, God abides in the mind. By no other means can He be obtained.
Amass thou God's wealth, O brother,
so that the Lord may become thy Succourer in this world and the next one. Pause.
Mixing with the saints congregation, God' wealth is earned, God's wealth is obtained not elsewhere by any other effort whatever.
The dealer in God's jewels, purchases the jewel of God's wealth. The glass merchant can acquire not God's wealth through mere prattle.
God's wealth is like pearl, gem, and emerald. At the suitable early in the morn time, the Lord's saints fix their attention on the Lord God's wealth.
The Lord's devotees eat and spend God's wealth, sown at the opportune ambrosial hour but exhausts not. Here and hereafter the saints are blessed with the glory of the Lord's wealth.
There is no fear of any sort to God's wealth. Ever, ever it is immovable and permanent. This wealth of God cannot be destroyed by fire and water and nor can thieves and death-couriers take it away.
A libertine can approach not God's wealth, nor can death, the tax-gatherer, impose a tax on it.
Committing sins the mammon worshippers amass poisonous wealth, but with them, it goes not even for one pace.
In this world, the materialists become miserable, when wealth slips from their hands. Hereafter the apostates find no shelter in the world-beyond and in God's court.
Of this Divine wealth, God Himself is the Banker, O saints. He whom He blesses with it, he alone loads the Divine wealth and takes it away with him.
This wealth of God, suffers not deficiency ever, The Guru has imparted this understanding unto slave Nanak.
Suhi, 4th Guru.
He with whom God is highly pleased; he utters God's praise. He is the saint and he alone becomes acceptable.
How can his glory be described, within whose mind abides the Powerful and Fortunate Lord?
Fixing thy attention on the True Guru, sing thou, O man the praise of the venerable Lord of the world. Pause.
He is the true Guru and that alone is the fruitful service of the True Guru, through which the exalted Name treasure is obtained.
The mammon-worshippers, who for the sake of their designs and another's love cultivate evil passions, they are all worthless and ignorant.
He, who has faith, fruitful is his singing of the Lord's praise. He alone obtains honour in the Lord's court.
They, who without faith fraudulently and falsely close their eyes; false pride shall ultimately wear off.
My soul and body are all Thine, O Lord! Thou art the Knower of hearts and the Omnipotent illustrious Master.
Says serf Nanak, I am the slave of Thine slaves, O my Lord. As Thou makest me speak, so do speak I.
Suhi 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
What and which merits of Thine should I narrate, recount and sing? Thou, O Lord, art the Treasure of excellences.
Thine praise I can describe not. Thou art my Lofty illustrious Lord.
The Lord God's Name; that alone is my support.
As it pleaseth Thee, so save me O my Master. Without Thee I have none else. Pause.
Thou alone art my might and court, O my Master. Before Thee alone, I make a supplication.
There is no other place, where I may make a supplication. My weal and woe, I lay before Thee alone.
The earth and water abide in one place and the one place and the fire is locked in wood.
The sleep and the lion, the Lord has kept in one place. O man contemplate thou on God and shake off thy doubt and dread.
Look at the greatness of God, O saints. The Lord blesses the dishonoured with honour.
As the dust from beneath the feet comes high up, similarly, O Nanak, the Lord makes the whole world fall at the feet of the pious person.
Suhi 4th Guru.
Thou, O Creator, Thyself knowest everything. What should I say and tell unto Thee?
The bad and the good, thou knowest all. As man sows, so does he reap.
O my Lord, Thou knowest the condition of the mind.
The evil and the virtuous, Thou knowest all. As is Thy will, so makest them Thou speak. Pause.
Amongst all the bodies, God has infused the love of worldly valuables and in the human form. He hast afforded a chance to perform His devotional service.
Some Thou unitest with the True Guru to gather peace and some apostates are engrossed in worldly affairs.
All belong to Thee and Thou belongest to all. Thou hast scribed destiny on every one's head, O my creator.
As is Thy glance, so becomes one, O Lord Without Thine grace no one assumes any form.
Thine glory, Thou alone knowest, O Lord. Every one ever thinks of Thee.
He, whom Thou lovest; him Thou unitest with Thee. He alone, O serf Nanak, becomes acceptable.
Suhi 4th Guru.
They with whose mind my Lord Master abides; all their diseases are dispelled.
They, who utter God's Name are emancipated and obtain they the immaculate supreme status.
O my Omnipresent Lord, God's slaves become healthful for aye.
Under Guru's instruction they who meditate on my Lord God; their malady of ego is dispelled. Pause.
Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva are afflicted with the ailment of three dispositions. They act in the spirit of I-am-ness.
The poor ones remember not Him, who created them. The Lord's understanding is obtained, through the Guru.
The whole world is engrossed in the disease of self-conceit. They suffer the great anguish of birth and death.
By Guru's grace, some rare one is saved. Unto that person, I am a sacrifice.
He, who created the world knows everything. Peerless is His beauty.
Himself seeing His creation, the Lord is pleased, O Nanak. It is through the Guru, that the Divine understanding is attained.
Suhi 4th Guru.
All that has happened or is to happen is in the Lord's will. We may do something only if we have power to do.
By one's own doing, nothing can be done, As it pleases God, so keeps He the Mortal.
My sire Lord, all are in Thine power.
I have no power to do anything. As Thou willest, so pardon Thou me. Pause.
Thou Thyself hast blessed me with soul, body and everything and Thou Thyself hast yoked me to Thine service.
As is the command issued by Thee and as is Thine pre-destined writ, so are the deeds, the mortal does.
Of the five elements, Thou hast created the whole world. Let any one make the sixth, if he can.
Uniting with the True Guru, Thou grantest understanding to some. Some are apostates who do evil deeds and bewail.
God's glory I can narrate not. I am foolish, unwise and low.
Forgive Thou Thy slave Nanak, O my God Lord, for he, the ignorant one, has entered Thine sanctuary.
Rag Suhi. 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
As an actor stages a play,
and appears in many characters and guises,
similarly the Lord when He abandons His guise and ends His play,
then the one alone remains, the One alone.
How many characters appeared and disappeared?
Whither have they gone and whence did they come? Pause.
Good many waves arise in the water.
Out of gold are made ornaments of many kinds.
I have seen seeds of many sorts being sown.
When the fruit ripens, the seed appears in the same one form.
In the thousand water-pots one sky is reflected.
On the bursting of the water-pots, the sky pageant alone is left.
Doubt is caused by the sins of avarice, worldly love and wealth.
Freed form the illusion, the mortal assumes the one Lord's from.
He, the Lord is imperishable and perishes not.
He neither comes, nor does He go.
The perfect Guru has washed away the filth of my self-conceit.
Says Nanak, I have obtained the supreme salvation.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Whatever the Lord wishes to do that alone happens.
Without Thee, there is not any other.
The mortal who serves Him, His affairs are fulfilled.
O Lord, save Thou the honour of Thy slave.
O perfectly compassionate Lord, I have sought Thine protection.
Without Thee, who is going to cherish me? Pause.
The Lord is fully pervading the ocean, land, nether-world and the firmament.
The Lord abides near and is not far.
By pleasing people, nothing is obtained.
If the mortal is attached to the True Lord, then is his ego eradicated.
He whom Lord attaches to His meditation, He alone is attached.
The gem of divine knowledge becomes manifest within his mind.
His evil-intellect is dispelled and he obtains the supreme status,
and by the Guru's grace, he meditates on the Name.
Joining both the hands, I make a supplication before Thee, O my Lord.
If Thou willest, then alone Thou embellishes me.
Show Thou mercy unto me, O Lord and bless me with Thine devotional service.
Servant Nanak, ever contemplates his Lord.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Blessed is the devoted wife, who knows her Lord,
obeys His order and abandons her self-conceit.
Imbued with her Beloved, she makes merry.
O my mate, hear thou the way to meet thy Lord.
Dedicate thou thy soul and body to him, and lay aside the idea of feeling shame from the people. Pause.
One mate instructs her other mate that
She does only that which pleases her Lord.
Such a bride merges in the Being of her Lord.
The bride, grasped by ego obtains not her Husband's presence.
When the night (life)passes away, then does she regret.
The unfortunate willful wife suffers pain.
I may pray to my Lord, if I deem Him far.
The imperishable Lord is fully pervading everywhere.
Seeing the Lord just present, slave Nanak sings His praise.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The Guru has put the household under my control and I have become the mistress of the house.
My Spouse has made the ten sensory and action organs my slaves.
I have assembled all the things of the house.
With thirsty desire I long for my Beloved.
What merits of my darling Spouse should I mention?
He is Wise, beauteous and compassionate Lord. Pause.
I am embellished with truth and I have applied the pigment of Lord's fear to mine eye.
The Nectar Name is the betel, which I have chewed with my mouth.
My bracelets, dress and ornaments beautifully adorn me.
The bride obtains all the happiness, when beloved Comes into her home.
By the charm of virtues, I have fascinated my Groom.
I have made Him subject to me and the made Him subject to me and the Guru has dispelled my doubt.
The highest of all is may mansion.
Forsaking all other brides, my Beloved has become my lover.
The sun has risen and its light has illumined everything.
With immense faith in Him I have spread my couch
My darling of ever-new colour has come to my couch to enjoy me.
Meeting her Spouse, O slave Nanak, the bride has obtained happiness.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Desire has welled up in my mind to meet by Lord.
I go out to search and see my dear Spouse.
Hearing my Beloved's Message, I have spread out the couch in my home.
Roaming and rambling I returned and even then I saw my spouse not.
In what way can this poor soul of mine take courage?
Meet me, O my Friend, I am a sacrifice unto Thee. Pause.
The same one bed is spread for the bride and her Bridegroom.
The bride is asleep and the Groom is ever-awake.
The wife is intoxicated as if she has taken wine.
The wife awakes from slumber, if the Groom gives her a call.
Many days have passed and the bride has become hopeless.
I have wandered through all the countries and foreign lands.
I can live not even for an instant without merging in love in my Lord's feet.
Becoming merciful, if my Lord meets me, I shall be very fortunate.
Becoming compassionate, the Lord has united me with the saints society.
My fire is quenched and in my home I have obtained my Beloved.
All the decorations now become me.
Says Nanak, The Guru has dispelled my doubt.
Wherever I see, there I find my Love, O brother.
When the Guru opens the door, then is the mind restrained. Pause 2nd.
Suhi 5th Guru.
What merits of Thine should I recount? Thou art beneficent Lord of me the meritless one.
I am the purchased slave of Thine what cleverness can I play with Thee? This soul and body of mine are all Thine.
O my darling, blissful, and fascinating Beloved, unto thine vision I am a sacrifice. Pause.
Thou art my Bountiful Lord and I am a poor mumper of Thine. Ever, ever Thou art beneficent to me.
By my ownself, I can do but nothing, O my Unapproachable and Infinite Lord.
What service shall I render Thee? What should I say to please Thee? In what way can I see Thy vision, O my Lord?
Thy extent can be ascertained not. Thine limit cannot be found. My soul longs for Thine feet.
Becoming persistent I pray to obtain this gift that the dust of the feet of the saints be applied to my face.
The Guru has extended mercy to his attendant Nanak and lending His hand the Lord has delivered him.
Suhi 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Paltry is man's service and great his demand.
He obtains not Lord's presence, but says he has arrived there.
He rivals those, who are accepted by the Beloved.
This is but the stubbornness of the false fool. Pause.
He ostensibly wears the religious garb, but practises not Truth.
Though he so alleges but he can draw not near the Lord's mansion.
He is absorbed in mammon and calls himself a detached one.
With no love in his heart he utters with his mouth, "I am imbued with the Lord".
Says Nanak, hear my supplication O Lord,
and emancipate me, the filthy, relentless and lustful one.
Such is the glory of seeing Thine vision. O Lord,
Thou art the comforter and well-wisher of mine. Pause second.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The mortal rises early for evil deeds,
when it is the time to contemplate the Lord's Name, he leisurely sleeps.
The ignorant person realises not his opportunity.
He is engrossed in worldly love and revelments. Pause.
In the midst of the waves of avarice, he sits elated and puffed up.
He sees not the vision of the pious persons.
The ignorant clown understands not ever.
Again and again, he is involved in entanglements. Pause.
He is pleased to hear with his ears the music of sins.
His mind lazes to hear the Lord's praise.
O blind man, see thou not with thine eyes.
Thou shalt leave all these false affairs and depart. Pause.
Says Nanak, O Lord, take thou pity on me,
and mercifully bless me with the society of saints.
Then alone man obtains something when he becomes the dust of all men's feet.
He, to whom God gives understanding, utters His Name. Pause.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Within his home, the man beholds not the Lord,
and suspends a stone-god round his neck.
The mammon-worshipper wanders astray in doubt.
He churns water and dies in agony. Pause.
The stone which he calls his god;
that stone drowns him along with itself.
O sinner, untrue to thy salt,
the boat of stone shall not ferry thee over.
Meeting the Guru, I have known my Lord, O Nanak.
God the destiny scribe is fully contained in the water, dry land, nether regions and sky.
Suhi 5th Guru.
In what way has thou enjoyed thy love?
O my mate, give me thou thy counsel.
Crimson, crimson, crimson becomes the bride,
who is dyed with the love of her beloved. Pause.
My Love, with mine eye lashes, I shampoo Thine feet.
Whither Thou sendest me, thither go I.
I shall batter away my worship, penance, self-discipline and celibacy to Him.
Make me meet the Lord of my life even for a moment
Who effaces her sense of self-honour, power and arrogant intellect,
she alone, O Nanak, is the chaste bride of her spouse.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Thou art my life and Thou the prop of my soul.
Beholding, beholding Thee, O Lord, my soul. is comforted.
Thou art my Friend and Thou my Beloved,
at no time forget I Thee in my mind. Pause.
I am the purchased slave of Thine.
Thou, O the treasure of excellences, art my Great Lord.
He in whose court there are millions of saints,
He abides with them every moment.
I am nothing Everything is Thine, O Lord.
Like warp and woof, abidest Thou, with Nanak,
Suhi 5th Guru.
His are comfortable mansion and high gates.
Within them abide the loved saints of God.
Very sweet is the Lord's discourse of equipoise.
Rare is the person, who witnesses it with his eyes. Pause.
There in the arena of saints' congregation, the Divine music is sung.
There His saints make merry with their Lord.
There is neither birth and death, nor weal and woe.
There rains the Nectar of the Lord's True Name.
This mysterious discourse, I have known from the Guru.
Nanak, utters the Lord Master's Word.
Suhi 5th Guru.
They, through whose vision millions of sins are washed off,
and meeting with whose society, this dreadful world-ocean is crossed.
They alone are my friends and they alone the dear intimates,
who make me remember the God's Name. Pause.
The Lord alone is my Friend, by hearing whose word all the comforts are obtained.
Through whose service the Death's courier are shunted off.
Whose consolation lends support to this soul,
and by whose meditation the countenance becomes bright.
The Lord's slaves, the Lord Himself embellishes.
Nanak, seeks their protection and is ever a sacrifice unto them.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The angelic persons and gods are allowed not to stay.
Performing service, the silent sages too get up and depart.
Living for ever are seen the mortals who contemplate their Lord Master.
Through the saints' society, obtain they the Lord's vision. Pause.
The kings, the bankers and the merchants shall all die.
Who-so-ever is seen; him the death shall consume.
The mortal attaches and clings to the false worldly attachments.
Leaving behind everything, when one departs, then ultimately does he regret.
O the Treasure of mercy, bless Thou Nanak with this boon,
that night and day, he may meditate on Thy Name.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Amongst all the hearts, abidest Thou, O Lord.
The entire creation is strung upon Thy thread.
Thou art my Beloved and Thou the support of my very life
Seeing, seeing Thee, my soul has blossomed. Pause.
Wandering, wandering and wandering through many existences I have grown weary.
I have now grasped the refuge of the saints' congregation.
Thou, O Lord, art Inaccessible, Incomprehensible, Invisible and infinite.
Day and Night, Nanak meditates on Thee, O God.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Of what avail is the glory of the worldly valuables,
which take no time to disappear?
This world is a dream, but one in sleep knows it not.
In an unconscious state, He is clung to it. Pause.
The ignorant one is bewitched by the great worldly attachment.
Before the eyes, the very eyes of all, he arises and departs.
The highest of the high is His court.
Myriads of beings He creates and destroys.
There has not been another, nor shall there ever be.
Contemplate thou, O Nanak, that one Lord alone.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Remembering and remembering Him, I live,
I wash Thine lotus feet and drink the wash, O Lord.
He, my Lord, is the searcher of hearts.
The Lord abides with the pious persons. Pause.
Hearing and hearing Thy Nectar-Name, I meditate on it.
The eight watches through, I sing Thine praises.
Seeing and seeing Thine wonderous plays, my mind is in joy.
Infinite are Thine virtues, O the Lord of supreme Bliss.
By remembering whom no fear befalls one;
that Lord Nanak meditates upon for ever and eye.
Suhi 5th Guru.
I deliberate over the Guru's Word within my mind.
With my tongue, I utter the Name of the Lord of the woods.
Fruitful is the Lord's personality, Unto His vision I am a sacrifice,
The Lord's lotus feet are the support of my soul and very life. Pause.
Through the society of saints the cycle of births and deaths is ended.
The hearing to the ambrosial gospel is the drop of mine ears.
I have abandoned lust, wrath, greed and worldly love.
I have grasped the Name, Charity, ablution and good actions.
Says Nanak, I have realised this reality,
that whosoever utters the Lord's Name is emancipated.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The sinner is absorbed in avarice and temporal love,
and performs not the service of his Creator.
My Master, Purifier of the sinners is Thy Name.
O Lord save thou me, the meritless one. Pause.
Thou art the Munificent Lord, the inner-knower.
Perishable is the body of the arrogant man.
Pleasures, strife, jealousy and pride of wealth;
attached to these the man wastes his gemlike life.
The Destroyer of pain, God, the King, is the life of the world.
Forsaking all else, Nanak has entered His sanctuary.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Seeing with the eyes, man is called blind and hearing he hears not.
He who abides near; Him he deems distant. The sinner ever commits sins.
O mortal, do thou deeds, which may emancipate thee.
Utter thou the Lord God's name and the ambrosial Word of the Guru. Pause.
Thou art ever imbued with the love of horses and mansions.
Know that nothing shall go with thee.
Thou adornest thy vessel of clay.
But it is very filthy form within and shall meet with death's punishment.
Thou art bound by Lust, wrath, avarice and temporal Attachment.
Thou art sinking in the great pit of worldliness.
O my Lord, hear Thou the supplication of Nanak,
and deliver me, a sinking stone.
Suhi 5th Guru.
He who remains dead in life understands the Lord.
The Lord meets that man by His grace.
Hearken, O friend, like this the formidable world-ocean is crossed.
Associate with the saints and utter the Lord's Name. Pause.
Without the One Lord, one should know not another.
He should realise the supreme Lord in all the hearts.
Whatever the Lord does, he accepts that as good.
He knows the worth of the beginning and the end.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto the man,
within whose mind abides God, the Enemy of ego.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The Guru himself is the Lord Creator.
He gives support to the entire universe.
Meditate thou on the Guru's lotus feet in thy mind.
Anguish and pain shall thus flee from this body of thine. Pause.
The True Guru saves the drowning man from the awful world-ocean.
He unites those, separated since many births.
Serve thou the Guru, day and night.
Thy soul shall thus obtain pleasure, poise and peace.
By great good fortune, one obtains the dust of the True Guru's feet.
Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto the Guru.
Suhi 5th Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru.
Throughout the eight watches, I sing the God's praise.
Meditate thou on that Lord Master of thine.
He is the inner-knower of all the hearts. Pause.
When man enshrines affection for the Lord's lotus feet,
his mode of life becomes true, perfect and pure.
By saints grace, the Lord abides in the mind,
and the sins of many births are eradicated.
O Lord, compassionate to the meek, take Thou pity on me.
Nanak prays for the dust of Thine saint's feet.
Suhi 5th Guru.
O my Guru, I live seeing thine vision.
Like this my destiny is completed, O Lord.
Hear this my supplication, O my Lord.
Bless me with Thy Name and make me Thy slave. Pause.
My Beneficent Lord, keep Thou me under Thine protection.
By Guru's grace, some rare person understands Thee.
O Lord, my friend, hear Thou my supplication.
May Thine lotus feet abide within my mind.
Nanak makes one prayer,
that I may not forget Thee, O Thou the Perfect Treasure of virtues.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The Lord is my friend, intimate, son, kinsman and brother.
Wherever I see, I see God as my comrade and helper there.
God's Name is my caste, my honour and riches.
Therewith I obtain comfort, poise bliss and peace. Pause.
I have put on the coat of arms of the meditation of the Transcendent of the Transcendent Lord.
Million of weapons can pierce it not.
The refuge of the Lord's feet is my fortress death's myrmidon can demolish it not.
The torturer death's myrmidon can demolish it not.
Slave Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto,
the attendants and saints of the sovereign Lord, the Enemy of ego.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Where are sung ever the praises of Lord, the world-Cherisher,
there are happiness, joyous plays, bliss and comfort.
Come, O my mate, let us go to enjoy our Lord.
Let us repair to the feet of the pious persons. Pause.
I make supplication before God and long for the dust of His slave's feet.
Like this I wash off the sins of many births.
Unto the Lord I dedicate my soul, body, breath and very life.
Contemplating and contemplating God, I am eradicating my ego and worldly love.
O Lord, merciful to the meek, bless Thou,
slave Nanak with this favour, that he may remain absorbed in Thine sanctuary.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Lord's realm is the place where the saints abide.
They enshrine the Lord's lotus feet in their mind.
Hearken, O my soul and body, let me show you the way to peace,
and make you eat the various viands and delicacies. Pause.
Taste thou the Nectar-Name in thy mind, O man.
Unutterable is its wondrous relish.
Thy avarice shall perish and thy desire shall be quenched.
The saint seeks the refuge of the Supreme Lord alone.
The Lord dispels the fears and worldly attachments of many births.
Unto servant Nanak, the Lord has extended His mercy.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The Lord removes many shortcomings of His slave,
and showing His mercy makes him His own.
Thou, O Lord emancipatest Thine serf,
who is entangled in the noose o the dream like world. Pause.
The mountain like most dreadful sins of mine,
are washed off in an instant by the Merciful Master.
The sorrows, ailments and very great calamities,
are dispelled by contemplating the Lord's Name.
Showing mercy, the Lord attaches His devotees to His skirt.
O Nanak, they grasp God's feet and enter His sanctuary.
Suhi 5th Guru.
He, who withdrawing his mind from the Lord's meditation attaches it to worldliness,
is called a sinner in both the worlds.
He alone is approved who is pleasing to Him.
The Lord Himself knows His omnipotence. Pause.
He, who practises righteousness charity and goodness;
by virtue of the viaticum of faith, the worldly success fails him not.
Amidst all, the One Lord lies awake.
To whatsoever the Lord attaches any one, to that he is attached.
Inaccessible and Inapprehensible art Thou, I may True Lord.
Nanak speaks, as Thou makest him speak.
Suhi 5th Guru.
I utter God's name in the early morn,
thereby I have made a shelter for me both here and hereafter.
Ever, ever contemplate thou the Lord's Name,
that thy mind's desires may be fulfilled. Pause.
Night and day sing thou the praises of the Imperishable Lord,
and in life and after death thou shalt obtain an eternal Abode.
Serve thou the Banker, that thou mayest fall short of naught,
and while eating and expending thou shall pass thy life in peace and pleasure.
Lord, the life of the world, I have obtained in the society of the saints.
By Guru's grace, I have pondered on the Lord's Name.
Suhi 5th Guru.
When the perfect Guru becomes compassionate,
then my pains are eradicated and my service is fulfilled.
My Master, I live seeing, seeing. Thine vision,
and am a sacrifice unto Thine lotus feet.
without Thee who is mine, O Lord. Pause.
I have cultivated affection for the saints' society,
and have obtained the fruit of the Lord's writ, in accordance with my past deeds.
Wondrous is the glory of the mediation of the Lord God's Name,
which the three ailments can consume not.
O Lord, may I never forget, even for am moment, Thine feet,
such is the bounty Nanak asks from Thee, O my Beloved.
Suhi 5th Guru.
O my Beloved, let there be such an auspicious time,
when my tongue may utter God's Name.
Hearken Thou my supplication, O Merciful Master of the meek.
The saints sing ever the praises of God, the Home of Nectar. Pause.
Life-giving is Thine contemplation, O Lord.
He to whom Thou showest mercy; near him abidest Thou.
Thy Name is the viand to satisfy the hunger of Thine slave, O Lord.
Thou, O Beneficent Lord, art the only Giver.
The saints deem pleasure in the utterance of the Lord's Name.
Nanak, the Omniscient Lord, is our only Giver.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The life is flowing away, but thou see it not ever.
Thou art ever entangled in the strifes of the false worldly love.
Day and night ever meditate thou on God's the Lord of wealth.
Abiding in God's refuge, win thou the invaluable human life. Pause.
Thou committest sins with full force,
and enshrinest not, even for a moment, the Name jewel in thy mind.
In feeding and cherishing the body, the life is passing away,
but the mortal understands not the state of praising the World-Lord.
See thou the protection of thy Omnipotent, Unperceivable Lord,
and thus save thyself O Nanak. The Lord is the knower of hearts.
Suhi 5th Guru.
That thou mayest cross the fearful world-ocean; in the society of saints,
meditate thou on the Name of the Lord Master, the mine of jewels,.
Contemplating, contemplating the Primal Being, Live I.
Meeting with the perfect Guru, all the pains, ailments and the sins are done away with. Pause.
Through the Lord Name immortal status is obtained,
and the soul and body are rendered immaculate, which is the life's true object.
Through the eight watches, remember thou the Transcendent Lord.
If there be such a primal writ, then alone one obtains the Name.
I have entered the Lord's sanctuary and ponder over Him, the merciful Master of the meek.
Nanak longs for the dust of the saints' feet.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The beauteous mortal knows not the work of his household.
The fool is engrossed in the false affairs.
As Thou attachest one, so is he attached.
When Thou blessest him then utters he Thy Name. Pause.
God's slaves are imbued with God,
and night and day remain inebriated with Lord's wine (of Name).
Holding them by the arm the Lord Himself pulls them out,
and unites with Himself those, who are separated from Him since many birth.
Shower Thine benediction and save me Thou, O my Lord Master.
Nanak, Thy slave O God, has sought the refuge of Thy door.
Suhi 5th Guru.
By saints' grace, I have obtained an Eternal Home,
Now I am in all-peace and shall not wobble again.
I contemplate on my Guru and meditate on God's feet within my mind,
wherefore the Creator has made me ever stable. Pause.
I sing the praises of the immovable and imperishable Lord,
so my death's noose is snapped.
Showing mercy, the Lord has attached me to His skirt.
Ever in bliss, Nanak sings the Lord's praises.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Nectar-sweet are the words of the saints' speech.
Whosoever remembers the Lord, he is emancipated and utters he ever the Lord God's Name with tongue. Pause.
The distresses of the Dark-age are dispelled,
when the one Name abides in the mind.
The dust of the saints' feet, I apply to my face and forehead,
In the refuge of the God-Guru, Nanak has been emancipated.
Suhi 5th Guru.
I sing the glory of the compassionate World-Lord.
O my Omnipresent Merciful Master, bless me Thou with Thy vision. Pause.
Extending Thine grace, Thou cherisheth me.
My soul and body are all Thy property.
The contemplation of the Ambrosial Name goes with the mortal.
Nanak prays for the dust of the saints' feet.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Without Him, there is not another second.
He, the True Lord, Himself supports all.
The Lord Master's Name is my mainstay.
The infinite Lord is omnipotent to do all the works. Pause.
The Lord has dispelled all my diseases and made me healthy,
Nanak, the Master Himself has become my Saviour.
Suhi 5th Guru.
All long for the Lord's vision.
Through perfect good destiny, the Lord's vision is obtained. Pause
Forsaking her Beauteous sable Krishan (Lord) why has the bride gone to sleep?
The great mammon has made the bride follow the path of sins.
This butcher (mammon) has separated the bride from her Beloved,
This merciless (mammon)takes not pity on the poor mortal.
Good many lives have passed away in wandering about,
and the terrible mammon permits not mortal to abide in his own home.
Day and night, the mortal to abide in his own actions.
Blame thou not another. Thine own actions lead thee astray, O mortal.
Hearken, O holy man, my friend and my brother;
seeking the refuge of the Lord's feet, Nanak has obtained emancipation.
Suhi Measure 5th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Sublime and beauteous is the hut, wherein God's praises are sung.
Of no avail are the mansions, wherein the Lord is forgotten. Pause.
There is bliss in poverty, in which one remembers one's Lord in the saint's congregation.
May such worldly-glory be burnt, which involves man in mammon.
When there is contentment in the mind one feels happy k whether he in turning a quern or wearing a coarse blanket.
Such an empire is of no avail, by which the mortal is appeased not.
He, who wanders about naked in the love of one Lord, obtains honour.
Vain are the silk and satin clothes, engrossment in which increases man's greed.
Everything is in thine hands, O Lord. Thou Thyself art the Doer and the Cause.
Bless thou Nanak with this gift, O Lord, That every breath, he may remember Thee.
Suhi 5th Guru.
God's saint is my very life and riches. I am a water-carrier of his.
He is dearer to me than all my brothers, friends, sons and my soul. Pause.
Making a fan of my hair, I have it is a whisk over the saint.
I bend low my head to touch His feet and apply their dust to my face.
like an humble man, I offer Him me supplication with sweet words.
Abandoning my ego, I enter his refuge and obtain God, the Treasure of virtues,
again and again, I see the Vision the Lord's slave
His ambrosial words, I treasure up in my mind, and again and again I make obeisance unto Him.
In my mind, I desire the society of God's slave, I hope and pray for it.
O Lord, have mercy upon Nanak, that he may repair to the feet of Thy slave.
Suhi 5th Guru.
She, who has bewitched the world and continents; in her clutches, I have fallen.
O my Lord save this sinful soul of mine by blessing it with Thy Name. Pause.
I pursue her, who has made no one ever comfortable.
She, who forsakes all; to her I cling again and again.
Have mercy on me, O the Lord of compassion, that I may sing Thine divine praise.
This is the prayer of Nanak, O Lord, that he may remain absorbed in the saint's congregation.
Rag Suhi 5th Guru. Partal.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The affection of the Bewitching Beloved, is the greatest of all the affections.
O man, contemplate thou the Lord of the world alone. Naught else is of any account. Abandoning from thy mind the path of duality, get thou attached to the saints. Pause.
The Unmanifest Lord, has assumed the manifest form. He has fashioned numberless body chambers of varied and different designs.
Within them abides mind, the police officer.
In His mansion lives my love,
there he lives in bliss,
and he dies not, nor does he age.
The man is engrossed in the worldly affairs, wanders in various ways and snatches another's property.
He is surrounded by sins.
Now when he joins in the society of saints,
and stands before the God's gate,
he sees the Lord's vision.
Nanak has met the Guru,
and shall not return again.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The Lord has made this world an arena of milk-maid's dance.
Creating the entire creation, He has placed it therein. Pause.
In various ways He has made infinite forms and colours.
His play, the Lord cheerfully beholds and is tired not of enjoying it.
While enjoying all the relishes, He remains detached.
He has no colour or sign, nor mouth or beard.
Thine play, O Lord, I can narrate not.
Nanak is the dust of the saints feet.
Suhi 5th Guru.
My Lord, I have come to Thee. Thine refuge I have sought.
Placing faith in Thee and Thine mercy, I have come, come to Thee.
As Thou willest, so save Thou me, O Lord, The Guru has put me on Thy path. Pause.
Very untraversable is the sea of worldliness,
it shoves the mortals like the violent blowing of wind.
My mind is terrified to hear,
that the Righteous Judge is very strict.
The world is like a blind well.
It is but all fire.
I have grasped the saint's support.
Nanak contemplates his Lord.
I have now obtained the Perfect one.
Suhi Measure. 5th Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I supplicate my True Guru, to bless me with the sustenance of the Lord's Name.
When the True King is pleased, the world is cured of its fever.
Thou, O True creator, art the support of the devotees and Thou the shelter of the saints. Pause.
True are Thy chattels and true Thine court.
True are Thine treasures and true Thy extension.
Thy form is unapproachable and extremely beauteous is Thine vision.
I am a sacrifice unto Thine servants, to whom Thy Name is sweet, O Lord.
All the desires are fulfilled, when the Inaccessible and Infinite Lord is obtained.
Guru Nanak has met his Transcendent Lord and is a sacrifice unto His feet.
Suhi Measure. 5th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
O Lord, him alone Thou makest obey Thy will, to whom Thou art merciful.
That alone is Thy devotional service, which pleases Thee. Thou art the Cherisher of all the beings.
My sovereign Lord, the saints have Thine prop alone.
Whatever pleases Thee, that they accept, Thou art the support of their soul and body. Pause.
Thou, O Lord are kind, compassionate, treasure of mercy and the fulfiller of aspirations.
O Thou the Lord of life, all the saints are dear unto Thee, and Thou art Thine saints Beloved.
Thou art Unfathomable, Infinite and exceedingly Lofty, No one else is like Thee.
O my Bliss-giving Lord, this to Thee is my prayer, that I may forget Thee not ever.
If it pleases Thee, O my Master, with every breath of mine, I shall ever sing Thy praise.
O Lord, Nanak asks for the peace of Thy Name. Through Thine pleasure alone, can I attain to it.
Suhi 5th Guru.
What kind is that place of Thine, O Lord, where the mortal forgets Thee not ever,
and where he contemplates Thee throughout the eight watches and his body becomes pure?
My Lord I have come to search that place.
Searching and searching, I found it to be the society of saints, whose sanctuary I have now entered. Pause.
Reading and reciting the Vedas Brahma grew, He found not even a sesame's worth of God.
The strivers and adepts roam about wailing They too are bewitched by mammon.
There have been ten incarnations, Kings and forsakers like Shiva.
They too found not thine limit, though some grew weary of smearing their body with ashes.
Poise, peace and bliss are in the Name Nectar, So the Lord's saints sing His praise.
Nanak has seen the accredited sight of the Guru and with his soul and body he has pondered over the Lord Master.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The rituals, religious rites and hypocrisies, which are seen, them plunders Yama the tax-gatherer.
Sing thou the pure praise of the Creator, contemplating whom, even for a moment, thou shalt be emancipated.
O saints, thus is crossed the world-ocean.
He who practises the word of the saints, he is ferried across by Guru's Grace. Pause.
Millions of baths and ablutions at the holy places fill the mortal with filth in this dark-age.
He, who sings ' society; he is rendered immaculate.
All the Vedas, the religious books of the Muslims, the Simirtis and Shastras, by reading these, salvation is not obtained.
He, who by Guru's instruction utters the one Name; He gathers the pure glory.
The four castes of warriors, priests, farmers and menials are equal partners in divine instruction.
Nanak, he who under Guru's instruction utters the Name of God, who abides in all the hearts, is saved in the Dark-age.
Suhi 5th Guru.
They, who are imbued with the love of the Lord's Name, accept that whatever the Lord does.
They who repair to the Lord's feet; they are honoured every-where.
My Lord, no one is so great as God's saints.
The devotees remain pleased with their Lord and see Him in water, land, nether region and firmament. Pause.
Millions of sinners are saved in the saints society and death's minister draws not near them.
He who is separated from his God since many births; him the saint unites with the Lord.
The Lord banishes the Love of wealth, doubt and dread of him, who enters the saint's sanctuary.
With whatever desire the mortal contemplates, that he obtains from the Saints.
To what extent, should I narrate the glory of the Lord's slaves, who are pleasing to Him.
Says Nanak, they who meet with their True Guru; they become independent of one and all.
Suhi 5th Guru.
My Lord, I have sought Thine protection and giving me Thy hand, Thou hast saved me from the great fire.
Within my mind I take just pride on Thine might, All other hopes I have abandoned.
Sovereign Lord, when Thou comest into my mind, then am I delivered.
My God, Thou art my refuge and Thou my support Contemplating Thine Name, I am saved. Pause.
Thou Thyself hast become merciful unto me and Thou hast pulled me out of the blind well.
Thou takest care of me and blessing me with all the comforts, Thou Thyself cherisheth me.
The Lord has showered His benediction and snapping my bonds, He has delivered me.
The Lord Himself has put me to His meditation and Himself has yoked me to His service.
My doubt is gone, my fear and infatuation are dispelled and past are all my sorrows.
Nanak, the peace-bestowing Lord has taken pity on me and I have met my Perfect True Guru.
Suhi 5th Guru.
When there was no creation, what did the mortal do then and what deeds account for his birth?
The Lord Himself stages His play and Himself beholds it, It is He who has created the entire creation.
O my sovereign Lord, I can do not a thing.
He himself if the Creator and Himself makes men do things. He, the Lord abides amongst all. Pause.
By going into account, I can be saved not ever, as my body is transitory and ignorant.
O my Omniparous-Lord, have Thou mercy upon me, Wondrous are Thine bounties.
All the sentient beings are created by Thee, O Lord, and all the hearts contemplate Thee.
Thine state and extent, Thou alone knowest, The worth of Thy Omnipotence can be ascertained not.
Meritless, foolish, insensate and ignorant am I, The pious deeds and righteousness I know not.
O Lord, show Thou mercy unto Nanak, that he may sing Thy praises and Thy will may seem sweet unto him.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Fortunate are Thine saints, O Lord Master, in whose home the wealth of Thy Name abides.
Approved is accounted their advent into this world and fruitful are their deeds.
My Lord, I am a sacrifice unto the God's attendants.
Making the whisk of my hair, I wave it over them and the dust of their feet, I apply to my face. Pause.
Both above birth and death are the philanthropic persons who come to do good to others.
They give me the gift of spiritual life apply men to divine devotion and make men meet with God.
True is their order, true their empire and with the True Lord they arm imbued.
True is their happiness and true their praise. They know Him to whom they belong.
I wave the fan, draw water and grind corn for God's slave.
Nanak makes a supplication to his Lord, "Bless me with the vision of Thine attendants".
Suhi 5th Guru.
The True Guru is the Primal Being and the Transcendent Lord. He Himself is the Creator.
Thy slave prays for the dust of Thine feet and is a sacrifice unto Thine vision.
O my God-Guru, the king, as Thou keepest me, so do I live.
When it so pleases Thee, then makest me remember the Name. Thou alone blesseth me with peace. Pause.
Salvation Worldly comforts and life's department are obtained through Thine service, which thou Thyself makest man perform.
Heaven is there where Thine praises are sung. O my Guru, thou thyself createst faith in the man.
Meditating, meditating, meditating on Thy Name, O Lord, live I, and my body and soul are enraptured.
I wash Thine lotus feet and drink the wash, O my True Guru, Merciful to the meek.
I am a sacrifice unto the beauteous time, when I came to Thy door.
The Lord has become compassionate unto Nanak and he has obtained the Perfect True Guru.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Contemplating Thee, O Lord, supreme bliss wells up. He who forgets Thee, He mets his end.
He, unto whom Thou becomest merciful, O Creator; He ever meditates on Thee.
My Master, of me dishonoured, Thou art the honour.
I pray to Thee, O my Lord and live by hearing, hearing Thine divine, Gurbani. Pause.
May I become the dust of the feet of Thine slaves. Unto Thine vision, O Lord I am a sacrifice.
Thine Ambrosial Word, O Lord, I enshrine in my mind and by Thy grace I obtain the saints' society.
I place my mind's condition before Thee, None is so great as Thee, O God.
He whom Thou attachest; he gets attached to Thee. He alone is Thy devoted serf, O Lord.
With both the hands joined together, I pray for the bounty of Thy Name, O Lord, Through Thy pleasure alone can I receive it.
With every breath, Nanak meditates on Thee, O Lord and sings Thy praises throughout the eight-watches.
Suhi 5th Guru.
How can he, over whose head Thou art, O Lord, suffer pain?
Intoxicated with the wine of wealth, the mortal knows not how to utter the True Name and thinks not of death.
O my sovereign Lord, Thou belongest to the saints and the saints belong to Thee.
Thy slave has nothing to fear and the death's minister comes not near him. Pause.
They who are imbued with Thine love, O Lord, their pain of birth and death is removed.
Thine bounties, O Lord, none can erase. The True Guru has blessed me with this consolation.
They, who remember the Name, obtain the fruit of peace and day and night, they contemplate Thee.
Seeking Thine shelter and support they overwhelm the five villains.
I know not gnosis, meditation and the virtuous deeds, nor know I Thy worth, O Lord.
The greatest of all is Satguru Nanak, who has saved my honour in this Dark-age.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Forsaking all, I have sought the Guru's protection. Now save me Thou, O my saviour.
To whatsoever, Thou yokest me, to that I am yoked. What can these poor persons do?
My Lord Master, Thou art the knower of hearts.
O my Bright, compassionate Guru, have mercy on me, that I may ever sing the Lord's praises. Pause.
Day and night, I meditate on my Lord. By the Guru's grace, the dreadful ocean is ferried across.
Forsaking my self-conceit I become the dust of all men's feet. Like this I die to myself in life.
In this world, fruitful is the life of him, who in the society of saints utters the Lord's Name.
He, to whom the Lord shows His mercy, all his desires are fulfilled.
O Thou the compassionate and kind Lord Master, Merciful to the meek, I seek Thine refuge.
Take pity on Nanak, O God and bless him with Thy Name and the dust of the Saint's feet.
Rag Suhi Astpadian. 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
In have all demerits and I have no merit whatever,
then how can I meet with my Spouse?
Neither I have beauty, nor enamouring eyes,
I have neither good family, nor manners or sweet speech. Pause.
The bride bedecks herself with Divine Knowledge,
but she only becomes happy wife when her spouse loves her.
He has no form nor features.
The Lord can be contemplated not at the last moment.
I have no understanding, intellect and cleverness,
mercifully attach me to Thine feet, O Lord.
The bride, though very wise, is not pleasing to her Groom,
who is clung to mammon and is strayed by superstition.
If she effaces her ego then merges she in her spouse,
and then alone can the bride obtain the nine treasures of her Beloved.
Separating from Thee, since many births, I have terribly suffered.
Now hold Thou my hand, O my sovereign Beloved Lord.
Says Nanak the spouse is and shall also be.
Whomsoever the Beloved Loves; Her alone enjoys He.
Suhi 1st Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
False is the dye of safflower. It lasts but for a little while of some four days.
Without the Name the false woman strays in superstition and the cheats defraud her.
Being imbued with the True Lord, the mortal is not born a second time.
He who is imbued with the Lord's love; how can that imbued one, be otherwise dyed?
Serve thou the dyer, (True Guru), and apply they mind to the True Lord. Pause.
Even though thou wanderest in four directions, without destiny thou cannot obtain wealth.
If robbed by vice, thou shalt wander like a captive and find no place of rest.
They whom the Guru protects, are saved, In their mind they are imbued with the Guru's instruction.
They who wear white clothes, but whose heart is filthy and relentless;
with their mouth they utter not the Name and are thieves, engrossed in duality.
They who understand not their origin; they are beasts and they are the animals.
Man ever and ever engages in pleasures and ever and ever asks for more peace.
He remembers not the Creator, so miseries overtake him again and again.
He, within whose mind the dispenser of weal and woe abides How can his body feel hunger?
He in whose name the debt stands is summoned, and death's myrmidon smites him on his head.
When called for, the account has to be rendered. It is demanded after due deliberation.
The mortal is saved by his love for the True Lord, and the Pardoner pardons him.
If man makes any one other than God, his friend; he for sure dies and is blended with dust.
Seeing many false shows, the mortal is beguiled and straying thus, he suffers transmigration.
By Lord's grace, he is emancipated and the Merciful Master unites him in His union.
O heedless one, shorn of gnosis, search thou not Divine knowledge, without the Guru.
The man is ruined in the state of indecisiveness. The effect of both evil and good deeds ever remains with him.
Without being imbued with the Lord's Name and fear, all are spied by the death's courier.
God, who has created and sustenance to all.
Why shouldest thou forget Him in thy mind, O man, who is ever and ever thine Benefactor?
May Nanak forget not the Name, which is the Support of the supportless.
Suhi 1st Guru. Kafi.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Unprocurable is the human life. They alone, who turn God-wards obtain it.
If the True Guru so wishes, man's mind and body are rendered cool like the moon.
He Who amasses the merchandise of the True Name, departs after embellishing his life.
Enshrining the Lord's fear through the True Guru's instruction, the mortal obtains honour in the Lord's court. Pause.
He who with the soul and body praises the True Lord, becomes pleasing to the True Lord's mind.
He, who meets with the Perfect Guru, his soul is imbued and appeased with the Beloved.
I live by thinking of Thine virtues, O Lord. Thou abidest within my mind.
When Thou dwellest in my mind, it easily revels in joy.
O my silly soul, how should I instruct and teach thee?
Through the Guru, sing thou thy Lord's praise and remain imbued with His love.
Ever, ever remember thou Thy Love in thy mind.
If thou departest with virtues misery shall harass thee not.
An apostate goes astray in doubt and he enshrines not love for the Lord.
He dies an utter stranger and his soul and body are spoiled.
Performing the service of the Guru, O man, thou shalt bring profit home.
By the Guru's hymns, the detached Lord is realised.
Nanak makes a supplication, "O Lord, if such be Thy will,
bless me Thou with an abode in Thy Name, that I may ever sing thine praises".
Suhi, 1st Guru.
Putting in a furnace, as the iron is melted and refashioned,
so is the materialist cast into existences and made to roam and ramble about.
Without understanding the Lord there is all distress and man earns nothing but distress.
In ego, he comes and goes and ever strays in superstition. Pause.
Thou, O God, ever savest through the Guru, so let the mortal contemplate God's Name.
By Thine will, O Lord, man practises the Name and Thou unitest him with thyself.
Creating the creation, Thou thyself beholdest it. Whatever Thou givest, that one obtains.
Thou seest, createst and destroyest all, Everyone Thou keepest in Thy eye, O Lord.
The body shall become dust and the soul shall fly away.
Where are gone these homes and sitting places of the mortal? Now he hinds no place of rest.
In the pitch darkness of broad day light, the home's wealth of the mortal is being plundered.
The thief of self-conceit is robbing the house. Before whom should I lodge a complaint?
By Guru's grace, the thief breaks not into the and God's Name keeps one awake.
The Name quenches the fire of man's desires, and the Divine Light illumines him.
The Lord's name is the jewel and gem. The Guru has imparted this understanding unto me.
He, who obtains Guru's instruction, ever remains non-desirous.
O man, enshrine thou God's Name in thy mind, night and day.
If such be Thy will, O Lord, unite Thou Nanak, in thine union.
Suhi 1st Guru.
From Thy mind forget not thou the Lord's Name and day and night ponder over it.
As Thou mercifully keepest me, O Lord, that very way, I find peace.
For me, the blind one, God's Name alone, is the wooden staff.
Abide I under the Lord's protection, so the mammon bewitches me not. Pause.
Wherever I see, there the Guru has made me see the Lord with me.
Searching within and without, I have ultimately seen God through the Guru's instruction.
With love serve I the True Guru, who has blessed me with the immaculate Name.
O Thou, the Destroyer of doubt and dread, as it pleaseth Thee, so issueth Thou the commands.
On the mortal's very birth, the disease of death comes and clings to him.
Singing God's praises, both birth and death are approved.
Where ego is not there art thou, O Lord. Thou alone hast createst.
You yourself createst and destroyest all and Thou blesseth some with Thy Name.
Leaving the body to roll in dust, it is not known where the soul is gone?
He, the Lord Himself is pervading everywhere and this is a great wonder.
O Lord, Thou art not far and thou understandeth all.
By Guru's grace one sees Thee just present, O God, Thee just present, O God. Verily Thou art amongst all.
Bless me Thou with an abode in Thy Name, that my soul may be pacified.
Instruct me thus, O my True Guru, that I, slave Nanak, may ever continue singing the Lord's praises.
Suhi Measure 3rd Guru Ashtpadian
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
From the Lord's Name, everything has proceeded. Without the True Guru, the Name is realised not.
The Guru's Word is the sweet supreme Nectar, but its relish can be known not without tasting it.
For a small shell, the mortal loses his life and understands not his ownself.
If man turns Guru-wards, then knows he the One Lord and the ailment of ego infests him not.
A sacrifice am I unto my Guru, who has attuned me to the love of the True Lord.
Remembering the Name, my soul is illumined and I now remain merged in celestial bliss. Pause.
The pious person sings the Lord's praise, the pious person realises Him and the pious person reflects over His Name.
The Guru re-animates the soul and body, and the supreme Guru alone adjusts all the affairs.
The blind apostate commits evil deeds and earns nothing but poison in the world.
Without the greatly loved Guru, he ever suffers pain in the love of riches.
He alone is an attendant who serves the True Guru and walks in the True Guru's will.
He enshrines within his mind, the True Lord, His True praise and His True Name.
The holy man utters the True Gurbani and from within him flees the self-conceit.
The Guru himself is Giver and true are his gifts and he preaches the True Name.
The Guru-ward serves God, the Guru-ward earns the Lord's wealth and the Guru-ward makes others utter the Name.
In the Guru-given serene nature and imbued with the love of the True Lord, the Guru-ward ever remains detached.
The egocentric ever tells lies. He sows the poison he eats.
He is shackled by the Death's Minister and burn by desire. Who without the Guru can emancipate him?
God is the true place of pilgrimage, where man bathes in the lake of truth and the Guru-beloved, He Himself makes realise this.
The sixty-eight places of pilgrimage, the Lord has shown to be in the Guru's Word, bathing wherein, the filth of sins is washed off.
True and Immaculate is the True Lord. No filth clings or attaches to Him.
The Lord's true praise and true commendation are obtained from the Perfect Guru.
The body and soul all belong to that God, but the evil-minded person can say so not.
If such be the Lord's will, then the mortal becomes pure and from within him ego is eliminated.
Guru's instruction I have peacefully tasted, and my fire of desire is quenched.
He, who is imbued with Guru's word is intoxicated with poise and remains merged in the Lord.
In the love and affection of the Guru, he deems the Lord's Name as true.
From the Guru are obtained the true glory and the love of the True Name.
The one True Lord is contained amongst all, but rare is the person, who realises this.
If the Lord unites man with Himself, then He pardons him and adorns him with true devotion.
All is Truth and nothing but Truth is pervading all. Some rare one understands this through the Guru.
Birth and death take place in the Lord's will the Guru-ward understands his ownself.
He remembers the Name and becomes pleasing to the True Guru. Whatever he desires, that fruit he obtains.
Nanak, he who effaces his self-conceit from within his-self, all his affairs are adjusted.
Suhi, 3rd Guru.
Very beauteous is the body bride, with whom abides her Darling Spouse.
Cherishing the Guru's hymns, she becomes the happy bride of her True love for aye.
Ever dyed with the Love of God's service, she burns her self-conceit from within herself
Blessed! blessed is the Gurbani of the Perfect Guru,
it springs from the Perfect Guru and merges in the True Master. Pause.
Within the body abode all the continents, worlds and the nether regions.
In the body dwells the Beneficent Lord, the life of world, who cherishes all.
Ever illustrious is the body-bride, that by the Guru's grace, meditates on the Name.
Within the body abides the Lord Himself. He is undiscernible and can be discerned not.
The silly apostate understands this thing not and goes abroad in search of Him.
He, who serves the True Guru, obtains permanent peace. The True Guru has shown me the unseen Lord.
In the body is the invaluable wealth and the brimful treasures of Lord's meditation.
Within this body are the nine regions of the earth, shops, towns and streets.
Within this body are the nine treasures of the Name and they are attained by reflecting over the Guru's word.
Within the body the Lord estimates the weight (of your virtues) and Himself He is the Weight.
This mind is the gem, jewel and ruby, and great is its worth.
One attains not the Name at any price. The Name is obtained by reflecting over the word of the Guru.
He, who turns Guru-ward, searches his body. All others are gone astray in doubt.
He, whom the Lord gives; that man alone obtains the Name What other cleverness can be of any avail?
In the body abides Lord's fear and love. By the Guru's grace, the mortal obtains them.
within the body are Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva, who are said to be the creators of the whole world.
The True Lord has staged His play and has subjected the world to birth and death.
The Perfect True Guru himself has shown, that emancipation is obtained through the True Name.
That body which serves the True Guru, the True master Himself embellishes.
Without the Name, man finds not refuge in the Lord's court and the Yama distresses him.
Nanak, he on whom the Lord takes pity, obtains the true glory.
Suhi Measure 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Praise thou not the world, which shall pass away.
Praise thou not the people, who shall die and become dust.
Hail unto Thee, my Lord, hail.
By the Guru's grace, ever praise thou the Lord, who is True and Independent. Pause.
In the friendship of the world, the way-ward burn themselves to death.
They are bound and beaten in the city of death, and obtain not this opportunity again.
Fruitful is the life of the pious persons. They remain attached to the True Name.
They are illumined by the Omnipresent Lord and they abide in peace and pleasure.
They, who forget the Guru's instruction are engrossed in duality,
their thirst and hunger depart not and night and day they wander about burning.
Who cherish friendship with the wicked and enmity with the saints;
they are drowned with their families and cause their entire lineage to perish.
It is not good to slander any one. The foolish apostates alone do it.
The faces of those slanderers are blackened and they fall into the horrible hell.
O man, as thou servest, so becomest thou and so are the deeds, which thou performest.
What Thou Thyself sowest, that Thou Thyself shalt eat. Nothing else can be said about this.
The pious persons speak for some spiritual motive.
They are filled to the brim with ambrosia and have not even a particle of avarice.
The men of merits amass merits and instruct others.
Very fortunate are they who keep their company. Night and day, utter they the Lord's Name.
He, who has created the world, reaches sustenance to it.
He alone is the Giver and He Himself the True Master.
He, The True Lord is with thee. By the Guru's grace see Thou Him with thine eyes.
Ever meditate thou on that Lord and He shall pardon thee and blend thee with Himself.
Impure is this soul and pure is He, the True Lord. How can it blend with Him.
When through the Name, ego is burnt off the Lord unites it with Himself and then it remains united.
Accursed is the mortal's life, in this world, if he forgets the True Spouse.
If man meditates on the Guru's instruction, the Lord takes pity on him and he forgets not the Lord.
If the True Guru unites, then remain I united with the Lord and keep clasped the True one to my heart.
United thus, through the love and affection, separates not again.
I praise my Beloved by reflecting over the Guru's word.
Meeting with my love, I have attained peace and have become an illustrious bride.
The soul of the self-willed person is softened not. Very filthy and stone-hearted is his mind.
If the serpent be fed on milk, it shall have but pure poison within.
The Lord Himself does everything and Himself is the Pardoner. Whom else should I go to ask?
If by Guru's instruction, the mortal's filth is washed off, then comes he to possess the True ornamentation.
True is the Great Merchant and true His dealers. The false can stay not there.
They love not the Truth and are consumed in agony.
Polluted with pride the man wanders about and dies and is born again and again.
He acts in accordance with his past actions, which no one can erase.
If he joins the society of the saints, then comes he to embrace love for truth.
Praising the True Lord with the true heart, man becomes true in the True Court.
Perfect is the Perfect Guru's instruction. Day and night contemplate thou the Name, O man.
Egotism and egoism are the great maladies. Still and silence them thou from within thee.
I praise my Guru and bowing low fall at his feet.
Banishing self-conceit from within me, I dedicate my body and soul and place them before the Guru.
In the state of indecisiveness, the man is ruined, so fix thou thy attention on One Lord alone.
Forsake thou thy ego and owner ship, then alone shalt thou remain merged in Truth.
They who meet with the Guru are my brothers. They remain attached with the True Name.
They, who meet with thee True Lord, separate not again. They are seen true in the Lord's court.
They are my brothers and they my friends, who serve the True Master.
They sell off(burn) their straw like sins and enter into the partnership of virtues.
In the company of virtues, happiness wells up and they perform the true devotional service.
By the Guru's instruction they deal in Truth and earn the profit of the Lord's Name.
Gold and silver are amassed by committing sins but they go not with the man when he departs.
Without God's Name nothing goes with the mortal. All are beguiled by the Death's Minister.
God's Name is the soul's viaticum. Preserve thou carefully in thy mind.
This viaticum is inexhaustible and keeps company with the Guru-wards.
Forgetting the Primal Being, O my soul thou shalt depart shorn of all honour.
This world is engrossed in the love of another. By the Guru's instruction remember thou, O man the True Lord.
God's worth can be valued not, nor can God's praise be penned down.
By Guru's instruction man's soul and body are imbued and he remains blended with the Lord.
Playful is the Spouse of mine. He has spontaneously imbued me with His love.
If the bride merges in her Beloved's being, then is she imbued with His love.
They who serve the True Guru, meet the Lord, even though they might have been separated long.
Within the mind are the nine treasures of the Name, which exhaust not by eating and expending. They utter God's praise with ease.
They are born not, neither do they die, nor suffer they pain.
They, whom the Guru preserves, are saved and they make merry with their God.
They who night and day remain in tune with their Lord, the Friend, blend with Him and separate not again.
O Nanak, in this world, only a few persons are known to be such, who have obtained their True Lord.
Suhi 3rd Guru.
The sire Lord is subtle and inaccessible. In what way can one meet Him?
By the Guru's instruction, doubt is dispelled and the care-free Lord comes to abide in man's mind.
The Guru-ward utter the Lord God's Name.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who in their mind utter ever the Lord's praise. Pause.
The Guru is like the Mansarower lake. The very fortunate ones attain to him.
The pious slaves search the Guru out, They, the swans pick upon the Name.
The devoted Gur-sikhs remain yoked to the Lord's Name and reflect over the Name with Love.
If it be so pre-ordained by the Primal Being, the Sikhs accept the Guru's will.
By the greatest good luck, I have searched my home and found the Name treasure.
The Perfect Guru has made me see and realise the Omnipresent Lord Master.
The Lord of all is but One There is not any other second.
By Guru's grace the Lord abides in the mind, In that mind He becomes manifest.
The Lord is the knower of all the hearts and He, the Lord, abides everywhere.
Whom should one call evil? Enshrine thou love for the Lord and see.
As long as man is engrossed in duality, so long he calls some good and some evil.
The Guru-ward knows the one alone and is absorbed in the One Lord.
That is the service, which is pleasing to the Lord and which the Lord approves.
Fixing his attention on the Guru's feet, slave Nanak meditates on the Lord.
Suhi Measure Ashtpadian 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Let some one come and make me meet my darling Beloved. I will sell myself to him,
for the sake of seeing the Lord's sight.
If the Lord shows mercy unto me, then He makes me meet with the True Guru and I contemplate the Lord Master's Name. Pause.
If Thou blesseth me with happiness, then meditate I on Thee. Even in pain I forget Thee not.
If Thou givest me hunger, then even I am sated with it and feel happy in sorrow.
I cut and tear my body and soul and dedicate them all to Thee, O my Lord. For Thee I burn myself in fire.
I wave fan over and draw water for Thee. Whatever Thou givest me, that I eat.
Poor Nanak has fallen at Thy door, It is to Thine glory to unite me with Thee, O my Lord.
Taking out mine eyes, I place them beneath Thy feet, O my Lord, Travelling the whole earth over, I have gained this under-standing.
If Thou seatest me near Thee, then remember Thee I and if Thou strike me and drive me out, even then I meditate on Thee.
If people praise me, then the praise is Thine, If they slander me, even then leaving Thee, I go nowhere else.
If Thou art on my side, then let any one say whatever he likes. If I forget Thee, then breath I my last.
A sacrifice, a sacrifice I am unto my Guru, Falling at his feet I propitiate the saint-Guru.
Poor Nanak has gone mad for a vision of Thine, O God.
Even in violent storm and torrential rain-fall I go to catch a glimpse of my Guru.
Even though the sea, ocean be exceedingly brine, crossing it, the Guru's Sikh goes to the Guru.
As the mortal dies without water, so does the Sikh die without the Guru.
As the earth looks beauteous, when the rain falls, so does the Sikh bloom on meeting with his Guru.
O my Guru, I obey thee like the slave of thy Slave, I call on Thee in the mood of prayer.
Nanak prays to the Lord, that meeting with the Guru, he may attain to the Guru's peace
Thou Thyself art the Guru and Thyself the disciple, Through the Guru, I reflect on Thee.
They, who serve Thee, become like Thee, Thou preservest the honour of Thy servant.
O God, Thine treasures are brimful with devotion. He whom Thou lovest, Thou blesseth him therewith.
He whom Thou givest; That one alone receives them, Fruitless is all other cleverness.
Remembering, remembering, remembering my own Guru I awaken my slumbering soul.
Poor Nanak prays for the one boon: "My Master make me the serfs".
If the Guru rebukes me, even then he seems sweet unto me. If he forgives me, then it is to his glory.
What the Guru's beloved utters, that is approved, and what an apostate says is approved not.
Even if cold, frost and snow do fall, the Guru's Sikh still goes out to see the Guru.
The whole day and night, see I my own Guru and within mine eyes. In enshrine the Guru's feet.
I make efforts to please the Guru. The One, which pleases the Guru; that effort alone is accepted.
Night and day, contemplate I the Guru's feet, Show Thou mercy unto me, O my Master.
The Guru is Nanak's soul and body and meeting with him he is sated and satiated.
Nanak's Lord is fully pervading all, Here, there and everywhere, he sees the Lord of the universe.
Suhi Measure 4th Guru. Ashtpadian
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Within my mind, I have enshrined true love for my Beloved.
My body and soul are enraptured, when I behold the Guru before me.
I have purchased the Lord God's Name.
From the Perfect Guru, I have obtained the Unapproachable and Unfathomable Name Nectar. Pause.
Seeing the True Guru, I have blossomed and imbued love for the Lord's Name.
The Lord has mercifully united me with Himself and I have obtained the door of salvation
The True Guru is the lover of the Name. If I meet him, then shall I surrender my body and soul unto him.
If it be so pre-ordained, then do I easily quaff the Name-Nectar.
Praise thou the Guru, O man, while asleep and utter thou the Guru's Name while awake
If I meet with such a beloved of the Guru, I would wash his feet
O my soul, search thou some such friend, who may unite thee with thy Beloved.
Meeting the True Guru, I have obtained my God and He has met me spontaneously.
The True Guru is the ocean of virtue and the Lord's Name to see him, I have great yearning.
Without him, I can live not even for an instant. I die if I see him not.
As the fish, by no means, can live without water,
so the saint can live not without his Lord's Name, dies he.
I am in love with my True Guru. How can I remain alive without the Guru, O my mother?
I have the support of the Guru's hymns. Attached to Gurbani do I abide.
The Lord Master's Name is the jewel. By his pleasure, the Guru has blessed me with it, O my mother.
My only prop is the True Name. In the Love of the Lord's Name remain I absorbed.
In the Guru-given gnosis is contained the wealth of Lord's Name and the Lord's Name, the Guru imprints in the man's mind.
He alone obtains the Name who is destined to receive it and who comes and falls at the Guru's feet.
Ineffable is the story of Divine Love Let some friend of mine come and narrate it.
Unto him I surrender my soul and bowing low I repair to his feet.
Thou alone art my Friend, O my Omnipotent and Omniscient Creator.
Thou hast united me with the True hast united me with the True Guru, my intimate. ever, ever Thou art my support.
Eternal and immortal is my True Guru He comes not, nor goes he.
He Himself is the imperishable Lord, who is contained amongst all.
I have amassed the wealth of the Lord's Name and intact is my capital and merchandise.
O Nanak, the Perfect Guru has blessed me and I am approved at the Lord's court.
Rag Suhi Ashtpadian 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
Man is entangled in the company of sin.
The various waves perturb the mind.
O my soul, how shalt the Unapproachable, Uncomprehensible
and Perfect Lord be obtained by thee? Pause.
Man is engrossed in the intoxication of worldly love,
and his excessive desire is sated not ever.
Wrath, the pariah, abides within the body.
In the pitch darkness of spiritual ignorance the mortal sees nothing.
The shutters of engrossment in doubt are fixed.
So the mortal can go not in the Lord's Court.
Hope and fear have bound the mortal,
wherefore he finds not stability and wanders like a stranger.
He is under the sway of all the maladies.
He wanders about thirsty like the fish out of water.
I possess not any wisdom or argument.
O my Lord Master, Thou art the Only hope of mine.
A request is made to the saints,
by Nanak and he prays "O Lord, unite Thou me with Thyself".
The Lord has become merciful to me and I have obtained the saints' society.
Attaining to the Perfect Lord, Nanak is propitiated. Pause 2nd.
Rag Suhi 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The love of fornication is an ocean of fire and sorrow.
O my sublime Lord, mercifully save thou the mortal from it.
I have sought the protection of the lotus feet of the Lord,
who is the Master of the meek and the mainstay of His saints. Pause.
The Lord is the Patron of the patronless and the Destroyer of dread of His devotees.
Abiding in the society of the saints, the myrmidon of death touches the mortal not.
The Merciful, Beauteous Lord is the embodiment of life.
Uttering the Lord's virtues, the death's noose is snapped.
He who with his tongue ever repeats the ambrosial Name;
to him, mammon, the embodiment of ailment clings not.
Meditating on the World-Lord all the associates are emancipated,
and the five high way men draw not near.
He, who in his thought, word and deed contemplates the One Lord;
that man obtains all the fruits.
Showering His benediction, the Lord has made me His own,
and has blessed me with His immaculate Name and the relish of devotion.
In the beginning, middle and end is He, the Master.
Nanak, without Him there is not another.
Rag Suhi 5th Guru Ashtpadian
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
They, beholding whom my soul blossoms; how can I attain to their society?
They are the saints, friends and hearty intimates who attune me to the love of the Lord.
My love with them breaks not, nor is it interrupted ever.
O my Supreme Lord Master, show Thou mercy unto me, that I may ever sing Thine virtues.
Come and meet me, O friendly saints, that I may meditate on the Name of the friend of my soul. Pause.
Bewitched by worldly valuables, the blind man sees, hears and understands not.
His false body shall perish He engages in false pursuits.
Meeting the Perfect Guru, they who ponder over the Name; they win their life game and depart.
By God's will, the mortal comes into the world and on the receipt of His order he departs.
Under His Command the world is extended and under His command, man enjoys enjoyments.
He who forgets the Creator Lord; suffers he separation and sorrow.
He, who is pleasing to his Lord, goes to His court robed with dress of honour.
Mediating on the One Name, the mortal gathers peace here and has luminous countenance, hereafter.
The Transcendent Lord extends honour to him, who serves the Guru with true love.
The Lord is contained in spaces and inter-spaces. He cherishes all the beings.
I have amassed the true treasure of the wealth and property of the one Name.
When the Lord Himself becomes merciful to me, to forget Him not ever from my mind.
When the Lord Himself becomes merciful to me, I forget Him not ever from my mind.
His limit can be known not. He is lofty, beyond reach and infinite.
He, who forgets his Lord, dies and is born lacs of times.
They alone bear their beloved true love, within whose mind He Himself abides.
With them dwell those, who share their virtues, They too ponder over their Lord, the whole day long.
They are imbued with the love of the supreme Lord and all their afflictions are ended.
Thou O Lord, art the Creator and Doer. Thou alone art the one and the Many.
Thou art the Omnipotent and Omnipresent Master and Thine alone is the discriminating intellect.
Nanak, meditates ever the Lord's Name, which is the support of His devoted slaves.
Rag Suhi 5th Guru. Ashtpadian. Kafi.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
If I have strayed, if I have erred, even then I am called thine bride, O Lord.
The discarded ones, who enshrine love for another; die they repenting.
I shall leave not my Spouse's side.
Ever beauteous is my sweet Love. This alone is my mainstay. Pause.
Thou art my Friend, Thou the kinsman and on Thee I take great pride,
O Lord, when Thou abidest within me, then am I at peace. Of me, the dishonoured one. Thou O my Groom, art the honour.
If Thou art merciful to me, O Lord, the Treasure of compassion, then make me not see another.
May I blessed with this boon, that I may ever remember Thee in my mind.
My Master, make my feet tread Thine way and mine eyes see Thy sight.
If the Guru, becomes merciful to me, I would with mine ears hear Thine stories, O Lord.
Many lacs and millions of pious persons, O my Beloved, equal not even an hair of Thine.
Thou art the King of kings, I can say not Thine excellences.
O Lord, countless, are Thine brides, all greater than me.
O my Spouse, look Thou with grace on me even for an instant and bless me with Thine vision, that I may revel in Thy love.
Seeing whom my soul is comforted and sins flee away,
why should I forget Him, O my mother, who is fully pervading all?
Becoming utterly humble I dropped down at His door and He met me all spontaneously.
By the saints' assistance, Nanak has obtained what was pre-destined for him.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The Simirtis the Vedas, the Puranas and other Religious Books proclaim,
that without the Name all other things are false and worthless.
The infinite treasure of the Name abides within the mind of saints.
Coming, going, worldly attachment and distress flee in the society of the saints. Pause.
They who indulge in worldly love, strife and ego, shall assuredly weep.
They who are separated from the Name, obtain not peace ever.
Practising egoism, the mortal is bound in bounds,
and involved in the affairs of mammon, he is born in hell and heaven.
Collating, collating and collating I have found this to be reality,
that without the Name there is no peace and the mortal assuredly fails.
Good many come and go. They die, depart and are born again.
Without realizing the Lord all is vain and they wander in existences.
They to whom the Lord becomes merciful, obtain the Lord.
Those persons meditate on the ambrosial Name of the Lord.
Various, many millions, countless and infinite are such beings, who search for God.
But he, whom the Lord causes to know His Ownself; he alone sees Him near.
O my Bountiful Lord, forget Thou me not and bless me with Thy Name.
This alone is the fervent yearning of Nanak, O Lord, that 'day and night, I may sing Thine praises.
Rag Suhi, 1st Guru, Kuchaji.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I am ill-mannered. In me are infinite demerits. How can I go to enjoy my spouse?
Amongst my Spouse's brides, one is better than the other. Who is there, that knows my name even?
The mates who enjoy their Groom; They are in the shade of mango(very fortunate).
I possess not their virtues. To whom should I attribute the blame?
What merits of Thine, O Lord should I narrate? Which! O which Names of Thine shall I take (utter)
I can reach not up to even one virtue of Thine. I am ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Gold, silver, pearls and rubies are indeed bliss-bestowing.
Such Things my Bridegroom has given to me and I have fixed my heart with them.
The palaces raised by bricks and mud are adorned with stones.
I am gone astray in these decorations and sit not near that Bridegroom of mine.
The floricans shriek in the sky and the herons come and sit down.
The bride goes to her Father-in-law's, Going hereafter, what face shall she show?
She has forgotten her journey and was soundly sleeping, when the day dawned.
Separating form Thee, O spouse, she has amassed pain for herself.
In Thee, O Lord, are merits and in me all demerits. This alone is the prayer of Nanak.
All the nights are for the virtuous brides, May I an unchaste one obtain a night as well.
Suhi, 1st Guru, Suchaji.
When I have Thee, then have I every-thing Thou O Lord, art capital.
In Thee I abide in peace. Abiding in Thee I am congratulated.
By Thy will, Thou bestowest throne and greatness and by Thy will beggary and despondency.
By Thy will, the ocean flows ever the desert and the lotus bloom in the sky.
In Thy will, the man crosses the dreadful world-ocean and in Thy will, he is filled with sins and is drowned in it.
In His will, He becomes the blissful spouse of mine and I am imbued with the praise of the Treasure of virtues.
In Thy will, O my Groom. Thou seemest dreadful and I am undone in coming and going.
Thou O Groom, art Unapproachable and Unweighable. Uttering, uttering of Thee I have fallen at Thine feet.
What should I ask and what should I say and hear? I hunger and thirst for Thine vision.
Guru's Instruction, I have obtained my Lord, and Nanak's true prayer has been granted.
Suhi, 5th Guru. Gunwanti.
If I see disciple of the Guru, I bow low and fall at his feet.
I tell him the pain of my heart and implore him to unite me with the Guru,
my friend and impart unto me such an instruction, that my soul goes no where else.
This soul of mine I shall surrender unto thee. Show thou me the way to my Lord.
I have come from after and I have sought thy protection.
Within my mind, I have raised hope in thee. Eliminate thou all my suffering.
O sister, thou who walkest on this path, do thou the work, the Guru bids thee to do.
Abandon thou thy mind's intellect and give up the love of another.
Thus shalt thou have thy Lord's vision and even the hot wind shall touch thee not.
By myself I know not how to speak. I utter all, that is the command of my Lord.
Guru Nanak has shown mercy unto me and has blessed me with treasure of God's devotional service.
I shall not again feel thirst and hunger. I am appeased, sated and satiated.
If I see any Sikh of the Guru, I shall bow low and repair to his feet,
Rag Suhi, Chhant, 1st Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Inebriated with the wine of the prime of youth, I know not that I am but a guest at my parents home, I am sacrifice unto my Lord.
My soul is soiled with sins and without the Guru, virtues enter not my mind.
I know not the worth of virtues and stray in doubt, Thus am I wasting my youth in vain.
I know not my Groom I see not His Home and vision. My Beloved's celestial bliss pleases me not.
I walk not the way after consulting my True Guru and in sleep my night (life) is passing away.
Nanak, in the tender age, I am gone without the spouse. Without her Groom, the bride is withering away.
O father, wed me to God, I like Him as my Spouse. I belong to Him and am devoted unto my Lord.
The Lord, whose command governs the three worlds, is pervading the four ages.
The Lord of three worlds enjoys the virtuous brides and keeps afar from the unvirtuous ones.
As is the desire, so is the mind's demand, which the All-pervading Lord fulfils.
God's bride! She is ever a happy wife? She is windowed not, nor wears she the dirty clothes.
Nanak, I love my True Spouse, the Beloved, who remains the same, all the ages
Through My father, have the auspicious moment calculated, when I too may go to my in-law.
The marriage moment is that, which the Lord of the will fixes by His orders. That order cannot be undone.
None can efface the past deeds writ, which the Creator has inscribed.
The Groom, the illustrious member of the marriage party, is the Purifier of the mortals and is pervading the three worlds.
Seeing, affection between the girl and the boy, the mammon in despair weepingly leaves the girl.
O Nanak, clinging to the True Name and the Guru's feet, the bride abides in peace in her Lord's mansion and contemplates Him.
The father has married me after and I shall not return to my parent s home.
I am delighted to see. near my Beloved, who enjoys me and in His home I look beauteous.
My True and Beloved Spouse wanted me and He has united me with Himself, My intellect is now rendered perfect and very sublime.
By Good fortune I have met Him and obtained a comfortable place. I have been rendered virtuous through the Guru-given gnosis.
Chastity, contentment and truthfulness I ever gather in my lap and my Spouse Loves me for my True speech.
Nanak, I Shall not now suffer pain through separation and by Guru's instruction shall merge into my Groom's lap.
Rag Suhi 1st Guru Chhant.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Friends have come into my home,
the True Lord has made me meet their union.
When it pleased the Lord's mind, He easily caused me to meet them. Meeting the saints I obtained peace.
I have obtained the very thing, with which I had attached my mind.
Meeting with saints, night and day my soul remains pleased and beauteous look my home and mansion.
The unbeaten melodious music of the five musical instruments resounds since the friends have come into my home.
Come, O my dear friends,
Sing ye songs of joy, O women.
Sing ye the true songs of joy. Then shall the Lord love ye and ye shall be hailed through the four ages.
My spouse has come into my house, the place is adorned and His Name has adjusted mine affairs.
Applying the salve of the great elixir of gnosis to mine eyes, I have seen the Lord's form in the three worlds.
Meet me, O my mates and sing with Zest the songs of rejoicing, my Spouse has come into my house.
My mind and body are bedewed with Nectar,
within me is the jewel of Lord's love.
In my mind is the invaluable gem and I reflect over the Supreme Reality.
All the beings are mumpers. Thou art the Giver of all the fruits. Thou givest to all the individuals.
Thou art the wise Theologian and the inner-knower, Thou Thyself hast created the world.
Hear, O mates the Fascinator has fascinated my soul. My body and mind are bedewed with Nectar.
O the All-pervading soul of the world,
true is Thine play.
True is Thine play, O Inaccessible and Infinite Lord. Without Thee, who can make me understand Thee?
Millions of adepts, strivers and wise-men there are, but without Thy grace, who can call himself to be anything?
The Guru keeps in its place the mind, which is maddened by death and birth.
He, who burns his demerits with the Name, obtains the Lord by associating with virtues.
Rag Suhi 1st Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Come, O Friend, so that I may behold Thy vision.
Standing at the door of my house, I am watching for Thee, Within my mind is great yearning.
In my mind is great yearning, hear me, O my Lord, I have faith in Thee.
Seeing Thy sight I have become desireless and my pain of birth and death is ended.
Amongst all is Thy light. From that light are Thou known. Through love Thou art easily met with.
Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto my Friend, The True ones, He comes home to meet.
When the Friend comes into the home, then is the bride greatly pleased.
She is fascinated with the Lord's True Name and flowers on seeing her Lord.
Imbued with love, when her Groom enjoys her, the bride is pleased and greatly reverdured in the association of virtues.
The perfect Lord creator destroys her sins and roofs her home with virtues.
Annihilating the thieves, she abides as the mistress of her home and discriminatingly administers justice.
Nanak, through the Lord's Name, she is emancipated and by the Guru's instruction meets she with her Beloved.
The young bride has found her Bridegroom, and her hopes and aspirations are fulfilled.
She enjoys her spouse and through the Name merges in Him, who is pervading all and is not far off.
The Lord is not far, In all the hearts is He, All the mortals are His brides.
The Lord Himself is the Enjoyer and Himself enjoys as becomes His glory.
The Imperishable, Immovable, Invaluable and Infinite True Lord is obtained through the Perfect Guru.
Nanak, Himself the Lord mercifully makes the bride love Him and Himself arranges her union with Him.
My love abides in the lofty balcony, He is the supreme Lord of the three worlds.
I am wonder-struck, beholding His excellences and within me resounds the unbeaten celestial music.
I ponder on the Name, do sublime deeds and I am blessed with the standard of the Lord's Name.
Without the Name, the false find no place of rest. The jewel of the Lord's name alone becomes acceptable.
Perfect is my honour, my intellect and perfectly complete my way-pass. I shall, therefore, neither come nor go.
Nanak, by Guru's grace, who recognises herself, becomes like the Imperishable Lord.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Rag Suhi Chhant 1st Guru.
He who made the world, watches over it, and yokes the mortals to their tasks.
Thine bounties, O Lord, illumine the soul and the moon of gnosis shines in the body.
By the Lord's gifts, the moon of Divine knowledge shines and the darkness of pain is removed.
The marriage party of virtues looks beauteous with the Groom, who has chosen the bewitching bride after assaying.
The Groom has come home to the accompaniment of the melody of the five musical instruments and the marriage is performed with splendour.
He, who created the world, watches over it, and yokes the mortals to their tasks.
I am a sacrifice unto my spotless friends and intimates.
I have exchanged the hearts with those to whom this body is attached.
Why should I forget those friends from whom I have got and to whom I have given the Mind?
Seeing whom I enjoy pleasure; may they ever remain clasped to my soul.
Ever, ever they have all the merits and not even one demerit.
I am a sacrifice unto my spotless friends and intimates.
If the mortal has a casket of fragrance from it.
If my friends possess virtues, I meet them then and share their virtues.
Let us form a partnership with virtues and abandoning vices walk the Lord's way.
let us wear silks of virtues, make decoration of goodness and take possession of our arena.
Wherever we go and sit, let us talk with goodness and skim and drink-in the Nectar.
If the mortal has casket of fragrant virtues, he should extract fragrance from it.
It is the Lord Himself, who acts. To whom should we complain? None else does anything.
If the Lord errs, go and complain to Him.
If he errs, go and complaint to Him, but how can the Creator Himself err?
He hears, sees and gives gift without asking and without praying for.
The Beneficent Creator of the universe gives His gifts. Nanak he alone is the True Lord of all.
It is God, who Himself acts. To whom should we complain None else can do anything
Suhi 1st Guru.
Imbued with love, my soul utters the Lord's praises and He, the Lord is pleasing to my soul.
Truth is the, Guru-given, ladder to reach the Lord and with it true peace wells up.
My soul then enters the realm of celestial bliss and love s the Truth, How can this instruction of Truth be effaced?
The Lord Himself is Undeceivable. How can He be deceived by baths, charities, sublime wisdom and festival ablution?
My fraud, worldly attachment, and sins are effaced and stilled are my falsehood, feignedness and duality.
Imbued with love my soul utters the Lord's praises and He, the Lord is pleasing to my soul.
Praise thou the Lord, who has created the universe.
Filth is attached to the contaminated soul, rarely any one quaffs the Name-Nectar.
Dedicating this soul of his to the Guru, when the mortal churns and drinks in the Name-Nectar, the Guru sets a great price on him.
When I yoked my mind to the True Name, then did I easily recognise my Lord.
If it pleases him, I would sing God's praises with the Guru. How can I meet the Lord by being a stranger to Him?
Praise thou the Lord, who has created the world.
When the Lord comes into the mind, what else remains behind? How can then there be coming and going thereafter?
When the soul is pleased with its God, the Beloved; it is blended with Him.
True is the speech of him who is imbued with the love of the Lord, who has built the body fortress from a mere bubble.
The Lord Himself is the Creator-Master of the body of five elements. It is the Lord, who embellished it with Truth.
I am sinner, hearken Thou, O my love. Whatever pleases Thee, that alone is Truth.
One who is blessed with true understanding, comes and goes not.
Apply thou such a collyrium to thy eyes which is pleasing to thy beloved.
I can realise, comprehend and understand the Lord, if He makes me know His ownself.
The Lord Himself shows His way and leads me to it and Himself attracts my mind to Himself.
Good deeds and evil ones, the Lord Himself makes man do. Who can know the worth of the inscrutable Lord?
Enchantment, witchcraft and hypocrisy I know not, placing the Lord within my heart, my, my soul is pleased.
The Name-salve is known from him alone, who by Guru's instruction realises the True Lord.
When I have my own friends, why should I go to stranger's house?
These friends are imbued with the True Master, who ever abides with them in their mind.
In their mind these friends make merry and in the love they enshrine for the True Name,
are contained all the pious deeds, pilgrimages to the sixty-eight holies, charities and worships.
The Lord Himself creates, establishes and beholds all. His will is pleasing to His saints.
The friends are happy in their Lord's. love and they cultivate affection for their Love.
If the blind man be the leader, how shall he know the right way?
Paltry is his understanding. He himself is cheated. How can his followers know the way?
How can he walk on the right way and reach the Lord's mansion? Blind is the intellect of the blind man.
Without the Lord's Name, one can see not anything and the blind one is drowned in the worldly affairs.
When the Guru's word abides in the heart, then Divine Light and joy day and night well up in the mind.
With joined hands supplicate thou the Guru-guide to show thee the way.
If man becomes a stranger to the Lord, then the whole world is estranged with him.
Before whom should I unite the bundle of my pains, when all are brimful with woes.
The whole world is filled with miseries who can then know my in-most state?
Comings and goings are very dreadful. There is no end to man's rounds.
Without the Lord's Name, the mortal is vacant and sad and hears not the Word of the Guru.
If man becomes a stranger to the Lord, then the whole world is estranged with him.
He, who through Guru's house searches the Lord within his heart-home, merges in the All-pervading one.
If the slave is blessed with the True Name, then alone performs he the Guru's service.
The bride, who is propitiated with the Name and whose mind is softened; she abides in her Lord's mansion.
He, the Creator, Himself creates the world and Himself the Lord regularly puts an end to it.
Gurbani unites the mortal with God and then is he embellished and the unstruck music resounds within him.
He, who through Guru's house searches the Lord within his heart home merges in the All-pervading one.
Why praiseth thou the created? Praise thou Him, who createst and watchest all.
His worth can be ascertained not, however much one may desire.
He alone can evaluate Him to whom He reveals His ownself. The Lord Himself is unerrable and errs not.
O my Master, he alone, who is pleasing to Thee, applauds Thee, through the invaluable Word of the Guru.
I am abject and groveling one, make a supplication before the Lord, O brother, that I shall not ever forsake the True Name.
Nanak, He who has created the creation watches over it and He alone imparts real understanding.
Rag Suhi Chhant 3rd Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Meditate thou on God, the Giver of peace and pleasure,
and through the Guru obtain the Lord's fruit.
Gathering the fruit through the Guru and remembering the Lord's Name thou shalt drive away the afflictions of many births.
A sacrifice am I unto my Guru, who has arranged all mine affairs.
O God's man, if thou remember God, the Lord God shall show mercy unto thee and thou shalt obtain the peace-giving fruit.
Says Nanak, hearken O man, my brother contemplate thou the Lord to obtain peace and pleasure.
Hearing of the Lord's excellences, I am easily drenched with them.
By the Guru ' instruction, I have automatically uttered the Lord's Name.
They who are so pre-destined, the Guru meets them and their fear of birth and death hastens away.
He, who banishes evil-intellect and duality from within himself; that man comes to embrace love for God.
They, to whom my Lord shows mercy they sing; night and day, the Lord's praise.
Hearing of the Lord, my soul is naturally softened with his sublime love.
In this age, emancipation is obtained only through the Lord's Name.
From the Guru wells up the Lord's meditation.
Reflecting over the Guru's Word, the love for the Lord's Name is enshrined He, unto whom the Lord shows mercy, obtains it;
In poise, sings he the Lord's praise day and night, and all his sins are washed off.
All are Thine and Thou art of all. I am Thine and Thou art mine, O Lord.
In this age, the mortal is emancipated by contemplating the Lord's Name.
They within whose mind the Friend comes and abides,
singing the praises of God, they remain sated and satiated.
Singing God's praises she is appeased for aye and feels not hunger again.
The Lord's slave, who meditates on the Lord God's Name, is adored in ten directions.
Nanak, God Himself unites and separates. Without God, there is not another.
The Friend has come to abide within my heart-home.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Rag Suhi 3rd Guru.
The sire Lord protects the honour of His devoted slaves. All the ages through, He has been protecting it.
He alone is the saint who turns Guru-wards and burns his ego with the Name.
He, who burns his self-conceit with the Name and whose speech is true, is pleasing to my Lord.
Day and night, he performs the Lord's true devotional service, which the Supreme Guru has narrated and enunciated.
True and exceedingly immaculate is the saints way of life and the True name is pleasing to their mind.
Nanak, the devotees, who practise nothing but Truth, look beauteous in the True Court.
God is the caste and honour of His saints and the saints are merged in God's Name.
They perform God's worship, Banish self-conceit from within and discriminate between merits and demerits.
They discriminate between good and evil, utter God's Name and to them Lord's fear and devotion are sweet.
Night and day they ever perform Lord's service and remain detached in their very home.
Imbued with his service their soul is ever see the Lord with them.
Nanak those saints are true in the Lord's court and night and day they remember the Name.
The perverse worship the Lord without the True Guru, but how can the devotional service be performed without the Guru?
They are infected with the ailments of ego and worldly attachment and in death and birth they suffer pain.
In going and coming, the world suffers pain and is ruined in duality. Without the Guru, it obtains not the reality.
Without the Lord's devotion the entire world is gone astray and departs regretfully in the end.
Hardly any one amongst millions, realises the True Name of that Lord.
Nanak, through the Name the mortal is blessed with glory and in the love of another, he loses his honour.
In the saints home is the joy of True union and they ever utter the Lord's praise.
The Lord Himself blesses them with the treasure of His devotion and overcoming the painful death, they merge in the Lord.
Overcoming the agonizing death they blend with God, become pleasing to his mind and obtain the true treasure of the Name.
This treasure is ever inexhaustible and exhausts not ever. The Lord has automatically blessed His saints with it.
God's slaves are high, ever high are they. With the Guru's Word, they look adorned.
Granting pardon, the Lord unites them with Himself and all the ages through, they obtain glory.
Suhi 3rd Guru.
Through the True Name, the True happiness prevails there, where the True Lord is contemplated
Self-conceit and all the sins are dispelled if one keeps clasped to his heart the True Name.
He who enshrines the True Name in his mind cross the arduous and dreadful world-ocean and then he crosses it not over again.
True is the Satguru and True is his Word, by which He, the True Lord is seen.
He who sings the True Lord's praise, merges in the True Lord and he sees the True Lord pervading all.
Nanak, True is the Lord and True is His Name and through the True Name, the man is emancipated.
The True Guru reveals the True Name and He, the True Lord saves the mortal's honour.
The True viand is the Lord's True love and through the True Name peace is obtained.
Through the True Name, the mortal obtains peace and lives eternally and he enters not the womb and existences again.
The man's soul meets with and merges in the supreme soul of the True name his mind is illumined.
They, who realise the Truth meditate on the True Lord night and day and themselves become the True Lord.
Nanak, they within whose mind the True Name abides, suffer not pain, through separation.
Where through the True Gurbani is sung the praise of the True Master; in that house resounds the Songs of rejoicing.
He, who imbibes the pure and True virtues and is True in body and mind; He, The True Lord Master abides within him.
He practises nothing but Truth and tells the Truth and realises that whatever the True one does, that alone comes to pass.
Wherever I behold, I find the True Lord pervading there, There is not any other second.
Man springs from the True Lord and ultimately merges in Him. As long as there is duality in him, he continues coming and going.
Nanak, the Lord Himself does everything and He Himself makes others do.
The True devotees look beauteous in the Lord's court and they tell nothing but the Truth.
Within their mind is the True Gurbani and through Truth they understand themselves,
When they understand themselves, then know they the True Master. Through Truth wells up intuition within them.
True is the Name and True its glory. Through Truth alone wells up peace.
Imbued with Truth, the saints love the Unique One and love not any other.
Nanak, he on whose forehead it is so writ; He alone obtains the True Lord.
Suhi 3rd Guru.
Even if the bride wanders the four ages trough, save through the True Guru, she becomes not the happy bride of her spouse.
Ever permanent is the rule of God, without Him there is not another. Without Him, there is not another.
Without Him, there is not another. Ever True is He. The Lord. The Guru-wards know of the One alone.
The bride, whose soul is propitiated with the Guru's instruction meets with her Groom.
When man meets with the True Guru, then obtains he the Lord. Without the Lord's name, he is emancipated not.
Nanak, the bride enjoys her spouse. Through the minds appeasement wells up peace.
Serve thou the True Guru, O young bride. Thus shalt thou obtain the Lord as thine spouse.
Thou shalt ever be the virtuous wife of thy Groom and shalt not again wear the soiled raiment.
Her dress goes not dirty again and stilling her ego she recognises her Lord. By Guru's grace a few understand this thing.
She practices the avocation of good deeds, merges in the Name and within her mind knows but one God.
The Virtuous bride day and night enjoys her Lord and obtains true glory.
Nanak the bride enjoys her Beloved, the Lord who is pervading everywhere.
If thou servest the Guru, O young bride, he shall make thee meet with God, thy Groom.
The wife is imbued with the love of her Lord and meeting her Beloved obtains peace.
Meeting her love she obtains bliss, merges in the True Lord and beholds the True pervading everywhere.
Day and night the wife makes true decoration and remains absorbed in the True one.
The Bride recognises her peace-giving Lord through the Name and holds Him to her bosom.
Nanak, the house-wife recognises her Lord's mansions through the Guru's instruction obtains she her Lord.
My Primal Lord has united, united with Himself His young bride.
By Guru's instruction her mind is enlightened and she sees the Lord contained in all the places.
Within her mind, she enshrines her Lord, who is pervading all the places and obtains what was preordained for her.
She mounts to her Lord's comfortable couch, makes decorations of Truth and is pleasing to her Lord.
Washing off the filth of her self conceit, the bride becomes immaculate and by Guru's instruction merges in the True Lord.
Nanak, the Creator blends her with Himself and she obtains the Name's nine treasures.
Suhi 3rd Guru.
Sing thou the praise of God, the Lord Master. It is through the Guru, that the Lord is obtained.
Night and day utter thou the Name and unstruck music shall play for thee.
Celestial music plays and the ladies sing the Lord's praises, when the sire Master comes into my home.
The bride, who night and day perform her Guru's service, becomes the sweetheart of her spouse.
The mortals within whose mind, the Gurbani abides, look beauteous with the Lord's Name.
Nanak, permanent bliss is within the Home of those. whose home the Master mercifully visits.
Bliss wells up in the mind of the saints, They remain absorbed in the love of God's Name.
By the Guru's grace, their mind becomes pure and they sing the Lord's immaculate praise.
They sing Lord's pure praise and enshrine the Name and God's ambrosial word in their mind.
Guru's word can merge in all the hearts, but only those persons are emancipated in whose mind it abides.
Merging in equipoise they sing Thine praise, O Lord and through the Name unite in Thy union.
Nanak, profitable is the coming of those, whom the True Guru has put on the way to God.
They who join the society of saints, are absorbed in the Lord Master's Name.
By the Guru's instruction, they are eternally emancipated in life and embrace love for God's Name.
They, whom the Guru unites with the saints congregation, fix their mind on God and their soul is imbued with the their soul is imbued with the Lord's love.
They obtain the peace-giving Lord purge themselves of worldly attachment and night and day contemplate the Name.
Imbued with Gurbani and inebriated with gnosis, they enshrine the Name in their mind.
Nanak, eternal bliss is in the home of those, who are absorbed in the True Guru's service.
without the True Guru, the world strays in doubt and attains not to the Lord's mansion.
Through the Guru, some are united in the Lord's union, and their pains are dispelled.
When it so pleases the Lord's mind, their distresses are dispelled and imbued in love they ever sing Lord's praises.
God's devotees are ever the pure persons and they are ever renowned all the ages through.
They perform hearty service and are honoured in the Lord's Court. He the Lord, is their True hearth and home.
True is the Lord's bliss, absolutely true His divine narration and through His Name wells up peace.
Suhi 3rd Guru.
If thou desirest thy Groom, O young maiden then fix thou thy mind on the Guru's feet.
Thou shalt ever be the happy bride of the Reverend Lord who neither dies nor goes.
The sire Lord dies not, nor goes He anywhere. By Guru's peace and poise, the bride becomes the lover of her Groom.
Through truth and self-mortification she becomes immaculate for aye and is embellished with Gurbani.
True, ever True is my Lord, who Himself did create his ownself.
Nanak, she who attaches her mind to Guru's feet, ever enjoys her Spouse.
When the youthful bride obtains her Beloved, night and day she easily remains intoxicated with His love.
By Guru's instruction, her soul obtains bliss and not even an iota of filth is left in her body.
There is not even a trice of pollution in her, she is imbued with the Lord God and my Master unites her in His union.
Night and day she enjoys her Lord Master and banishes her ego from within her.
Obtaining and meeting her Beloved, through the Guru's instruction, she is easily dyed in His love.
Nanak, imbued with affection, she enjoys her Lord and obtains glory through the Name.
Imbued with love, she who remembers her spouse, mounts her Lord's mansion.
Exceedingly immaculate is He, the beneficent Groom, who banishes her self-conceit from within her.
When it pleases God, He drives out worldly love from within the bride and she becomes sweet to God's mind.
Night and day she ever sings the True Lord's praise and utters the unutterable story.
Through the four ages, the one True Lord pervades, but without the Guru none ever attains to Him.
Nanak she, who fixes her mind with God, is dyed in His love and revels in joy.
Bliss wells up within the bride's mind, when she meets with her loved Friend.
By Guru's instruction her mind is rendered immaculate and she keeps God, clasped to her heart.
She keeps God, enshrined in her mind, arranges her affairs and by Guru's instruction knows her Lord.
My beloved has fascinated my Soul and I have obtained Lord, the scribe of destiny.
Serving the True Guru, she attains eternal peace and God, the Enemy of pride abides in her mind.
Nanak, when her Guru, embellishes her with Gurbani, the Lord unites her with Himself.
Suhi 3rd Guru.
The Lord Master's Name is the song of joy By Guru's instruction, the Name is contemplated.
By Guru's grace soul and body are saturated with the Lord and the Lord's Name seems sweet unto the mortal.
The Lord's Name seems sweet unto him, he redeems all his lineage and with his mouth utters the Lord's Name.
His comings and goings cease, obtains he the bliss and his attention remains absorbed in the Home of celestial strain.
The Lord God has shown mercy unto Nanak and he has attained to his unique Lord God.
The Lord Master's Name is the song of joy. It is by Guru's instruction that the Name is contemplated.
I am low and the Lord is very high. How can I then meet with Him?
I am embellished with the Divine Word and the Guru has very mercifully united me with my Lord.
Obtaining the Name, I am embellished. Shedding my ego, I revel in joy with love.
When I become pleasing to my Lord, my bed is rendered comfortable and I am absorbed in the Lord God's Name.
Nanak, true and very fortunate is the bride, who walks in the True Guru's will.
I am low and my Lord is very lofty. How can I, then meet with Him?
In every heart and all the beings, there is One Lord. The One Lord is the spouse of all.
For some the Lord abides afar and for some He is the support of their soul.
The support of the soul of some is the Creator, who is obtained through the Guru by the Greatest good luck.
Within every heart is the unique Lord Master God. Through the Guru, is He the Invisible one seen.
The soul, that is propitiated with the Lord's meditations, O Nanak, easily obtains peace.
In every heart and all the beings, there is One Lord. The One Lord is the Spouse of all.
They who serve the Guru, the Beneficent True Guru merge in the Lord God's Name,
O God, bless me with the dust of the feet of the Perfect Guru, that I, the sinner, may be emancipated.
Stilling their ego, the sinners are emancipated and obtain an abode in their own Home.
Through the discerning intellect, the life night passes in peace and by the Guru's instruction the Name is revealed.
Contemplating the Lord's Name, joy wells up day and night, O Nanak, and God seems sweet unto the mortal.
They who serve the Guru, the Beneficent True Guru, merge in the Name of the Lord Master.
Rag Suhi 4th Guru Chhant.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
A sacrifice, I am unto Thee, O my Lord. Make me meet the mighty True Guru so that shaking of the sins I may utter Thine eulogies.
Meditate I on the Lord God's Name and ever, ever utter Gurbani. Unto the Lord I am a sacrifice.
The Gurbani is ever sweet unto me and I have shaken off my sins and misdeeds.
My ailment of ego is eliminated. My fear has fled and I have easily merged in celestial bliss.
With the Guru's instruction, my body bed has become cozy and I now enjoy the quintessence of Divine knowledge.
Night and day I ever enjoy peace and pleasure. Such is the writ of the Primal Lord for me.
Embellishing the girl with chastity, contentment and love her father, the Guru, has come to betroth her to her Lord. A sacrifice I am unto my Lord.
Joining together the pious persons, sing I the Guru's hymns. Devoted am I unto my Lord.
Singing the Guru's hymns I have attained the supreme status and meeting with the elect I am adorned.
I am rid of wrath, worldly love has flied from my body and I have eliminated hypocrisy and doubt.
The pain of pride is gone, I am in peace and my body has become disease-free.
O Nanak, by Guru's grace I have realised my Lord, the Ocean of virtues.
The self-willed bride remains after separated from her Lord, obtains not His mansion and is burnt away.
Within her mind is egoism and falsehood and deluded by falsehood, she deals in falsehood.
She practises falsehood sorrow and without the True Guru finds not the way.
The ignorant bride wanders in dismal paths and suffers buffets every moment.
The Munificent Master Himself shows mercy and make her meet the Mighty True Guru.
Nanak, with peace and poise the Guru unites with the Lord, the mortals, who are separated from Him since many births.
Calculating the auspicious moment, the Groom comes into the brides home, and she is greatly pleased in her mind.
The learned marriage-counselor came and sat down to read the almanac.
The almanac was looked into. The bride's mind was enraptured when she heard the coming home of her Friend.
The men of virtue and wisdom sat down and resolved to marry her instantaneously to the Lord.
She has obtained the Omnipotent, Unparalleled and Incomprehensible Lord as her Spouse, who is ever of fresh Body and the friend from her childhood.
Nanak, the Lord has mercifully united the bride with Him and she will never be separated again.
Suhi 4th Guru.
By the first round the Lord has impressed the duties of wedded life.
Utter thou the hymns of the Guru instead of the Vedas of Brahma and hold fast to this faith to dispel thine sins.
Hold fast to righteousness and contemplate the Lord's Name the Simirtis too inculcate the Name.
Dwell thou upon the True Guru, thy Perfect Guru, and all thine sins and misdeeds shall depart.
Through the greatest good fortune; celestial bliss is obtained and the Lord God seems sweet unto the mind.
Slave Nanak proclaims that by the First round the marriage rite has begun.
In the second round, the Lord has made me meet the Divine True Guru.
By God's fear my mind has become fear-free and the filth of my self conceit is washed off.
By having the fear of immaculate God, the Master and singing His praise, I behold Him face to face.
God Lord master, the soul of the world, is pervading every where and filling all the places.
Within and without is the One Lord Master. Meeting with the Lord's slaves sing I the songs of joy.
Proclaims slave Nanak, the second round is finished and the Divine melody resounds.
In the third round, the pleasure of Lord's Love wells up within my mind.
Meeting with the holy persons, I have found the Lord God through the greatest good lick.
Singing God's praise and uttering the Divine Gurbani with my mouth I have obtained the immaculate Lord.
By great good fortune, the pious persons attain to God and utter His unutterable story.
Within my mind has welled up the music of Good, the Lord Master, and by the destiny recorded on my brow, I contemplate the Lord.
Says serf Nanak that in the third round God's love is produced in my mind.
In the forth round Divine comprehension has welled up within my mind and I have obtained my Lord.
By Guru's grace, I have easily met my Lord, who is sweet unto my soul and body, Unto my Lord I am a sacrifice.
God seems sweet unto me and I have become pleasing to my Master. Night and day I fix my attention on the Lord.
I have obtained my heart-desired fruit, my Lord. By exalting God's name I am congratulated.
God, the Lord Master has brought about the wedding ceremony and the bride's mind has blossomed with the Lord's Name.
Says slave Nanak, in the fourth circling I have attained to my imperishable God Lord.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
Rag Suhi 4rth Guru.
The Guru-wards sing God's glories,
and with their mind and tongue relish Him.
They taste the Divine elixir and are pleasing to my Lord, who naturally meets them.
Night and day they enjoy revelments, sleep in peace and remain enshrined in God's love.
By great good fortune, man obtains the perfect Guru and night and day meditates on the Name.
The life of the Universe, easily meets him and O Nanak, he merges in the Absolute Lord.
Meeting the society of saints,
I have bathed myself in the pure pool of God's Name.
Bathing in the clean water of God's Name, my filth is washed off and my body is rendered immaculate.
The dirt of mal-intellect is removed, doubt has flied and the pain of ego is dispelled.
By the Lord's grace, I have obtained the saints' society and gained an abode in my own home.
O Nanak, my tongue delightfully enjoys the Lord's praise and the Name blazes forth in me.
The Name seems sweet to the Guru-ward,
who in his mind reflect over the Lord's jewel.
The lovers of God's Name are emancipated, by the Name and the darkness of their spiritual ignorance is dispelled.
The bright light of gnosis burns in their mind and their home and mansion are embellished.
I have made the ornamentation of surrendering my body and soul and have thus become pleasing to my True Lord God.
Whatever the Lord says, that I joyfully do, Thus, O Nanak I have merged in His lap.
The Lord master has brought about the marriage occasion,
and He has come to wed the pious bride.
He has come to wed the holy bride, who has thus obtained God. That bride is dear to her Bridegroom.
Meeting together, the holy men sing the songs of rejoicing. The sire Lord has Himself decorated the bride.
The deities, men, heavenly heralds and celestial singers have come in a body and formed the wondrous wedding party.
Nanak, I have obtained my True Lord, who never dies nor is born.
Rag Suhi Chhant 4th Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Come holymen, let us sing the glories of the World-Lord.
By Guru's grace, we meet with the Lord and in our home resound several strains of ecstasy.
Good many celestial strains are Thine, O my Lord God. Thou, O creator art contained in all the places.
Day and night I ever contemplate and praise the Lord and enshrine, love for the True name.
Day and night I naturally remain imbued with the Lord's love and within my mind I worship the Lord's Name.
Nanak, by the Guru's grace, I know but one God and know not another second.
The Lord Master is contained amongst all. he is the searcher of hearts.
He, who by Guru's instruction meditates on the Lord beholds that Lord Master of mine pervading all.
He, my Lord Master, the inner knower is contained within every heart.
By Guru's instruction, the mortal obtains Truth and merges in the Lord and without Him knows not another.
If I become pleasing to my Lord, then I would naturally sing His praise and he would unite me with Himself.
Nanak, by the Guru's instruction, He the Lord is realised and day and night, the mortal contemplates the Name.
This world is an untraversable ocean. The egocentric can cross it not.
Within him is self-conceit, egoism, lust, wrath and cleverness.
Within him is cleverness, he is approved not, and loses his life in vain.
In the Yama's way, he suffers pain, bears blows, and in the end departs regretfully.
Without the Name, there is none to befriend him, neither sons, nor family, nor brother's sons.
Nanak, wealth, worldly love and ostentation go not with him hereafter.
From my Beneficent True Guru, I ask the way by which I can cross the arduous world ocean.
Walk thou in the True Guru's will and thus remain dead in life.
By remaining dead in life man ferries across the dreadful world-ocean and through Guru's grace merges in the Name.
By great good fortune, the mortal obtains the Perfect Lord and fixes his attention on the True Name.
His intellect is enlightened, the mind is propitiated and he obtains the glory of the Lord's name.
Nanak, he who merges in the Name, attains to his Lord and his light blends with the supreme light.
Suhi 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O saintly persons I have me, t my desire is quenched.
I surrender my soul and body unto the True Guru, that he may unite me with my Lord, the Treasure of excellences.
Blessed, blessed is Guru, the great man who appeases me of the praise worthy Lord.
By great good fortune, slave Nanak has attained to his God and through the Name he has blossomed forth.
I have met the Guru, my beloved friend, and he has shown me the way and path to the Lord.
O my loved Lord, return Thou home. I am separated from Thee since long. Meet Thou me through the Guru's word.
Without Thee I am very sad and die like the fish without water.
O serf Nanak, the very lucky ones contemplate the Lord and merge in His Name.
Circling like a spinner, the mind of an egocentric wanders in ten directions and is gone astray in scepticism.
In his mind, he ever entertains hopes and his soul feels thirst and hunger.
Infinite is the wealth, buried in the mind ground but even then, he goes out in search of poison.
Praise thou the Name, O slave Nanak, man putrefies and burns to death.
Attaining to the beauteous and enamouring Guru I have overwhelmed my mind with the Lord's love-inspiring Gurbani.
My mind's worldly sense and wit are lost and my soul has forgotten hopes and anxieties.
Within my mind is the pain of Divine love and seeing the Guru, my soul has secured support.
By great good destiny come Thou, O Lord and meet me, Every moment slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto thee.
Suhi Chhant 4th Guru.
Destroy Thou, O man, the poison of self-conceit which makes thee meet not thy God Lord.
Ah, this gold coloured body the pride has ruined and disfigured.
Alas, the love of worldly valuables is all blackness This foolish apostate is attached to it.
O serf Nanak, the mortal is emancipated through the Guru and through the Guru's instruction is he released from ego.
Overcome thou, O man, this mind of thine. Thy mind ever wanders like the falcon.
Alas, ever hoping and desiring the life night of the mortal passes away in anguish.
O holymen, I have found my Guru and my desire is fulfilled, uttering the Lord's Name.
O Lord, bless slave Nanak with this understanding, that abandoning hopes he may ever sleep in peace.
O Sovereign Lord, the bride hopes and desires, that her Lord Master may come to her couch.
O sovereign Lord, my Master is infinitely compassionate, he has mercifully united me with Himself.
Within my mind and body is the aspiration to see the Guru's face and so I have spread the bedding of lovable faith, O my Sovereign Lord God.
When, O slave Nanak, the bride becomes pleasing to her Lord Master, the Sovereign Lord, He does naturally come to meet her.
On the same one bed is my Lord Master, the sovereign Lord. Instructed by the Guru, I would meet with my God.
Within my soul and body is the love and affection of the Sovereign Lord. Taking pity on me the Guru has united me with Him.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru, O Sovereign Lord. My soul, I surrender to the True Guru.
O serf Nanak, when the Guru is mightily pleased, he unites the mortal with the Sovereign Lord God.
Rag Suhi Chhant. 5th Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Hearken thou, O mad man, seeing the world, why art thou gone astray?
Hearken thou, O crazy one, thou hast contracted false love with the colour of saf-flower.
Thou art misled seeing the false world. It is not worth even half a shell. The world-Lord's Name has fast colour like madder.
Reflecting over the Guru's sweet word, thou shalt become exceedingly deep red, like the tulip flower.
Thou remainest inebriated with the false worldly love and art attached to falsehood.
Meek Nanak seeks the protection of God, the Treasure of mercy, who saves the honour of His Saints.
Hear Thou, O insane mortal, serve thou thy Master, the Lord of life.
Hear Thou, O insane mortal, whoever is come into the world he shall depart.
O stranger, what thou deemest ever-stable, all that shall pass away. So remain thou united with the saints' congregation.
Hear thou, O world renouncer, by good thou, O world renouncer, by good luck attain thou to thy Lord Master and remain firmly attached to His feet.
Surrender this soul of Thine to the Lord and entertain no doubt. Through the Guru, shed thou thy great ego.
O Nanak, the meek and saints, the Lord ferries across the world ocean, What virtues of Thine should I utter and narrate, O Master?
Hearken thou, O mad man, why takest thou the false pride?
Hear thou, O mad man, all thy ego and arrogance shall be humbled.
What thou deemest permanent, shall all pass away, False is the pride, so be thou an attendant of the Lord's so be thou an attendant of the Lord's slaves.
If such be thy recorded destiny, remain thou dead in life and cross the dreadful ocean.
He, whom the Lord makes contemplate Him, serves the Guru and quaffs Nectar.
Nanak has sought the protection of God's door and he is ever a sacrifice, a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto his Lord.
Hear thou, O crazy man, think thou not that, thou hast obtained the Lord.
Hear thou, O insensate man, be thou the dust of the feet of those, who meditate on the Lord.
They who contemplate their Lord, obtain peace. By great good fortune their vision is obtained.
Be thou humble and ever devoted unto the Lord and wholly efface thou thy entire ego.
He is pure and of blessed destiny, who has found his Lord. I am a sell-off to him. Meek.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the ocean of peace. O Lord, own Thou him and save his honour.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Being mightily pleased, the True Guru has blessed me with the prop of God's lotus feet. Unto the sire Lord, I am a sacrifice.
God's treasures are brimful with Nectar. Everything is in His home. Unto the revered Lord, I am a sacrifice.
My Father is very powerful. The Lord is the doer of all the deeds.
Contemplating whom, no misery befalls me and I am ferried across the dreadful ocean.
In the prime and the beginning of ages, the Lord is the Saviour of His saints, I live continually praising Him.
Nanak, sweet is the great elixir of the Lord's Name. With my soul and body, I quaff it night and day.
How can he suffer separation whom God unites with Himself? A sacrifice am I unto my reverend Lord.
He, whom has Thine support, O Lord, lives for ever and aye. A sacrifice am I unto the Lord.
Thine support, I obtain from Thee alone; O my True Creator.
Such is my Lord, bereft of whom there is not any one.
Meeting with the pious persons, I sing Thy praise and day and night I hope to meet Thee, O Lord.
The fruitful vision of the perfect Guru, have I obtained. Unto his Guru, Nanak is ever a sacrifice.
Dwelling on Lord's true abode. I obtain honour, greatness and truth. A sacrifice am I unto my reverend Lord.
Meeting the merciful True Guru, sing I the praise of the Imperishable Lord, A sacrifice am I unto my reverend Lord.
Ever, ever sing I the glories of the Loved World-Master, who is the Lord of my life.
Good day have come, God, the inner-knower, has met me and has closely hugged me to His bosom.
The musical instruments of truth and contentment play and the spontaneous music resounds with me.
Hearing the melody of the Creator Lord Master, O Nanak all my fears are dispelled.
When the quintessence of Divine knowledge wells up, I behold the one Lord, in this world and the next one.
When the Supreme Soul meets with my soul, on one can separate them. A sacrifice am I unto my reverend Lord.
The wondrous Lord I see, the wondrous Lord I hear of and the wondrous Lord comes to my view.
The Lord is filling the ocean, land and sky and is contained in every heart.
I have merged in the Lord, wherefrom I issued forth and the worth of this union cannot be told.
Nanak reflects over Him, whose wondrous plays cannot be known.
Rag Suhi Chhan.5th Guru.
There is but One God, by the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I sing the praise of my World-Lord,
and am night and day awake in my Lord's love.
Awakening to the Lord's love my sins hasten away and I meet the dear saints.
By attaching myself to Guru's feet, my doubts are dispelled and all mine affairs are arranged.
Hearing the Guru's hymns with my ears, I have realised the Lord. By great good luck I have reflected over my God's Name.
Prays Nanak, I have entered the Lord's sanctuary and my soul and body I surrender to my Master.
Beauteous is the celestial strain.
Singing God's praise, true happiness wells up.
Singing God's praise, my pain is dispelled and great joy has welled up within my mind.
Seeing Lord's sight my soul and body have become pure and with my mouth I utter the Lord's Name.
Becoming the dust of the saints feet and contemplating on my Lord Master, I become pleasing to Him.
Supplicates Nanak, O God, show mercy unto me, that I may ever sing Thine praises.
Meeting with The Guru, the world ocean is crossed.
Meditating on my God's feet I am emancipated.
Remembering the Lord's feet, I have obtained all the fruits and my coming and going are ended.
With loving adoration, I reflect over my Lord God and thus naturally become pleasing to Him.
contemplate thou the one, invisible, infinite and Perfect Lord. Without Him there is not another.
Prays Nanak, the Guru has dispelled my doubt, wherever I see, there I find that Lord.
Purifier of the sinners is the Name of my God.
It adjusts the affairs of the holymen.
Obtaining the saint Guru, I have reflected over the Lord and all my desires are fulfilled.
I am rid of the fever of pride and am ever happy. I have now met my Lord, Separated from me since long.
My mind is at peace, I am congratulated and within my heart I forget not the Lord ever.
Prays Nanak, the True Guru has firmly instructed me ever to meditate upon the Lord of the universe.
Rag Suhi Chhant. 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Thou, O detached Lord, hast so many hand-maidens like me.
Thou art an ocean and the mine of jewels. Thy worth, O Lord, I know not.
I know not Thy worth. immensely wise Thou art. Show Thou mercy unto me, O Lord.
Mercifully bless Thou me with such an understanding that I may contemplate Thee, during the eight watches of the day.
O man, be not proud, become thou the dust of all and then alone shalt thou be emancipated.
Over the head s of all is the Lord of Nanak. he has good many hand maidens like me.
Thou art the pearl of Supremely profound and unfathomable worth. Thou art my Groom and I am Thy bride.
Thou, O Lord, art the Greatest of the great and the highest of the high and I am infinitesimally small.
I am nothing Thou art the only One. Thou art Wise by Thyself.
With a moment's ambrosial glance of Thine, O Lord, Live I and enjoy all the delights and dainties.
I, the slave of Thine slaves seek the refuge of Thine feet. My soul has flowered and my body is reverdured.
Nanak, the Lord is contained amongst all and does what He pleases.
On Thee do I take pride and Thou alone art my strength.
My understanding, intellect and wisdom are Thine gifts. What Thou makest me realise, that alone realise I, O Lord.
He alone knows, he alone understands, on whom is the grace of the creator.
The perverse bride strays into many paths and is ensnared in the mammon's net.
She alone is virtuous, whom her Lord loves. She alone enjoys all the pleasures.
Thou, O Lord, art Nanak's support and thou alone art Nanak's support and Thou alone art Nanak's pride.
I am devoted, I am dedicated unto thee, O my Lord, Thou art my mountain like shelter.
I am lacs, lacs of times a sacrifice unto my Lord, who has removed my curtain of doubt.
My darkness is dispelled I have renounced sins and my soul is reconciled with the Lord.
I have become pleasing to my reverend Lord, I am rendered care-free and my life has become fruitful and approved.
I have become invaluable and of great weight and the door of the way to salvation is opened for me.
Says Nanak, I have become fear less. He, the Lord has become my shelter.
Suhi 5th Guru.
My perfect True Guru is the Omnipotent Friend of mine. Without Him I know not another.
He is my mother, father, brother, son, kinsman, soul, very life, and pleasing to my mind.
The soul and body are all His blessings and He is brimful with all virtues.
That Lord of mine is the knower of heart sand is fully filling all.
In His refuge I have obtained all the comforts and I am wholly in bliss.
Ever, ever Nanak is a sacrifice unto his Lord and is for ever devoted to Him.
By great good luck, one attains to such Guru, meeting with whom the Lord is known.
His sins of many births are washed off, and he ever bathes in the dust of the feet of God's saints.
Bathing in the dust of God's feet and remembering the Lord, one enters not womb again.
Clinging to Guru's feet doubt and fear hasten away and the mortal obtains the fruit his heart desires.
By ever singing God's praises and pondering over the Name, one suffers not sorrow and affliction again.
O Nanak, that Lord is the Giver of life and perfect is His glory.
God, the Lord master is the Treasure of virtues and he the Lord is under the sway of His saints.
They, who are dedicated to the saints' the feet and the Guru's service, obtain the supreme status.
They obtain the supreme status, eradicate their self-conceit and the Perfect Lord showers His benediction on them.
Their life becomes fruitful, their fear is dispelled and they meet with one God, the enemy of ego.
He, to whom, the mortal belongs, blends him with Himself and his light merges in the Supreme light.
Nanak, meditate thou on the Name of the Immaculate Lord and gather peace, meeting with the True Guru.
O God's men, sing ye ever the Lord's praise and all your desires shall be fulfilled.
They, who are imbued with the love of their Lord Master, die not, nor do they come and go.
Contemplating the Name, the Eternal Lord is obtained and all the desires are realised.
Attaching his mind to the Guru's feet, man is blessed with peace, poise and good many pleasures.
The Imperishable Lord is fully filling all the hearts and interspaces.
Says Nanak, all the affairs are adjusted by fixing the mind on the Guru's feet.
Suhi 5th Guru.
O my Loved Lord, have mercy on me, that with my eyes, I may see Thy vision.
My Beloved, bless Thou me with lacs of tongues, with which my mouth may utter Thy Name.
Contemplating God, death's high way is conquered and no misery befalls the man.
The Lord is pervading the ocean, land and sky. Wherever I see, I find Him there.
My doubt, worldly love and sins have fled and I see the Lord nearer than the nearest.
My master, show mercy unto Nanak, that his eyes may see Thine sight.
O my Beloved Lord, bless me with millions of ears, wherewith I may hear the praise of the Imperishable Lord.
By hearing, hearing the Lord's praises, this soul is rendered immaculate and the death's noose is cut.
Remembering the Imperishable Lord, Death's noose is cut and all the glee and sublime wisdom are obtained.
Uttering Lord God's Name day and night man's attention is focused in the Lord.
Dwelling on the Lord, sin and suffering are burnt and mind's evil intellect is eradicated.
Says Nanak, O my Eternal Lord! show mercy unto me, that I may hear Thine praise.
O Lord, bless me with millions of hands to serve Thee and let my feet walk on Thy way.
God's service is the boat, whoever embarks on it; him it carries across the dreadful world-ocean.
Contemplating the Lord God, man crosses the dreadful world-ocean and all his desires are fulfilled.
His arch sins are eradicated, peace wells up and celestial music rings for him.
He obtains all the fruits his heart desires. How infinite is the worth of Thy Divine power, O Lord.
Says Nanak, O Master show mercy unto me, that my soul may ever walk on Thy way.
By great good fortune this boon, this glory and this wealth of the Lord's Name is achieved.
This is the revilement, this the joy and this the dainty, that my mind is attached to God's feet.
My soul is attuned to the Lord's feet and seeks His refuge. He, the Lord, is the cause of causes and the World-Cherisher.
O my Lord master, merciful to the meek, everything is Thine and Thou art mine.
I am virtueless, O my Beloved, the ocean of peace Through the saints' society my mind has awakened.
Says Nanak, my Master has taken pity on me and my soul is attached to His lotus feet.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Contemplating the Lord I have built the Lord's temple and there the saints and devotees sing God's praises.
Remembering and remembering their Lord Master, they shed all their sins.
Sublime is the Lord's Word and singing through it the Lord's praises, I have obtained the supreme status.
Very sweet is the Lord's peace-giving discourse. I have described the Lord's indescribable story.
Auspicious was the juncture and true the time and moment, when the immovable foundation of this temple was laid.
O serf Nanak, the Lord has become merciful, unto me and all His powers have blessed me,
The Transcendent Lord is enshrined in my mind and the musical instruments of joy ever play for me.
By Guru's grace I have adopted the sublime true way of life and my false doubt and dread are dispelled.
The supreme Guru has uttered the Divine Gurbani, hearing, hearing which my soul and body are refreshed.
He, whom the Lord makes His own, obtains all the happiness.
In his home are the nine treasures and his garners are filled with the Lord's Name, to which he bears love.
Nanak, the Lord's slave, perfect is whose destiny, he forgets not his Lord ever.
When Lord, the Master of umbrella affords shelter, all the fire is quenched.
The abode of sorrow and sin is demolished and the affair is adjusted and the affair is adjusted.
When the Lord God orders, misfortune is averted and true religions and charity flourish.
Ever contemplate thou that Lord of thine, whether sleeping, sitting or standing.
The Lord is the Treasure of virtues and the ocean of peace. He is pervading the ocean, land and the nether and upper regions.
Slave Nanak has entered the Lord's sanctuary. Without Him there is not another.
My home is constructed, my garden and tank are constructed and my Lord God, the King has met me.
My soul is adorned, my friends and intimates rejoice and I sing God Lord's virtues and praises.
Singing the True Lord's praises and meditating on Him, all my desires are fulfilled.
They who are attached to the Guru's feet, ever remain awake and in their mind resound the Lord's praises.
The Lord, Harbinger of Peace has shown mercy unto me and has embellished my this world and the World and the world-beyond.
Prays Nanak, ever utter thou the Name of Him who supports thy soul and body.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Contemplating the Lord God's name, I have crossed the terrible ocean, the terrible ocean.
I contemplate the Lord's feet, the ship, and meeting the True Guru, swim across.
By Guru's word, I swim across and die not again and end my coming and going.
Whatever the Lord does, that I deem as good. It is then that my soul merges in peace.
Seeking the shelter of God, the ocean of peace, no pain, no hunger and no ailment afflict the man.
Remembering, remembering the Lord, Nanak is imbued with His love and his mind's anxiety is stilled.
The holymen have impressed upon me, the Divine instruction, whereby God, my Friend, has come under my sway.
I have laid my soul before the Lord and He has blessed me with everything.
The Lord has made me His handmaiden, my sadness is stilled and I have attained stability in the Lord's temple.
My joys and revelries consist in remembering the True Lord, who never parts company with me.
She alone is very lucky and ever the true bride who reflects over the virtues of the Lord's Name.
Says Nanak, imbued with Lord's love and saturated with the supreme elixir of His affection, utter I the Lord's Name.
O my mate, I never enjoy peace and pleasure and in my home is the Eternal Bliss.
Her Lord has Himself embellished her and she has become her Lord's praise worthy bride.
Spontaneously her Lord has become merciful to her and He has not thought of her merits and demerits.
The Lord hugs to His neck His slave, who clasp the Lord's Name to their heart.
The whole world is engrossed in self-adoration, worldly attachment and self-conceit. The Lord has Himself mercifully shaken them off from me.
Says Nanak, I have ferried across the dreadful world-ocean and my affairs are accomplished.
O my mates, ever sing ye the praises of the World-Cherisher and all your desires shall be fulfilled.
Meeting with the saints and contemplating the One Lord, fruitful becomes the human life.
Remember thou the one Lord, who is contained in the Myriads of beings and is pervading the whole universe.
The creation is of the Lord. The Lord is spreading everywhere and in all the places I see the Lord.
The perfect Lord is filling the ocean, land the neither and upper regions. Without Him there is no place.
Seeing the Lord's vision, Nanak has blossomed and he has blended him with Him self.
Suhi 5th Guru.
Immovable is the city of the Guru-God, uttering the Name wherein I have obtained peace.
I have obtained all the fruits my mind desired. The Creator Himself has founded it.
The Creator Himself has founded it. I am blessed with all-bliss and my sons, brothers and disciples are all happy.
Singing the praises of the Perfect Supreme Lord, mine affairs are adjusted.
The Lord Himself is my Master, Himself my Saviour, himself my Mother and Himself my Father.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto the True Guru, who has adorned this place.
Homes, mansion and bazaars are lovely wherein abides the Lord's Name.
The saints and devotees contemplate the Lord's Name and their death's noose is cut.
Snapped is the death's noose for them, who ponder over immortal Lord Master God's Name.
All their worship is thus complete and they obtain their heart desired fruits.
The saints and friends enjoy peace and pleasure and their pain, suffering and doubt are dispelled.
The Perfect True Guru has embellished them with the Name. Nanak is ever devoted unto them.
Perfect is the gift of the Lord and it increased day by day.
The Transcendent Lord, great is whose greatness, has made me His own.
He who is the saviour of His saints since the prime and beginning of ages; that Lord has become merciful to me.
The Lord has made all living beings dwell in peace and he Himself sustains them.
The Lord's glory is pervading in ten directions and His worth I can utter not.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto the True Guru, who has laid the eternal foundation.
The Perfect Lord's Divine wisdom and meditation and the Lord God's gospel are ever heard there.
There, the saints of God, the Destroyer of fear, ever sport in glee and the musical instruments ceaselessly play.
The resonance of celestial strain, the deliberation of quintessence and the saints discourse, are the daily routine of the place.
The devotees meditate on the Lord's Name, wash off all their filth and rid themselves of all the sins.
Thither, there is no birth or death, no coming or going into the womb.
Nanak has found the Guru-God, by whose grace all his wishes are fulfilled.
Suhi 5th Guru.
The Lord God has Himself stood up to fulfil the saints task and has Himself come to do their affair,
Into the beauteous land and the beauteous tank is contained the Nectareous water.
The Nectareous water is filling the tank, my task is completed and all my desires are fulfilled.
The ovations of victory resound in the World and all my woes are at an end.
The Vedas and the Puranas sing the praise of the perfect, Omnipotent, Immovable and Imperishable Lord.
The Lord has honoured His creed and Nanak has meditated on the Lord's Name.
The creator has given me the nine treasures, wealth and perfection and I lack in nothing.
Eating, spending and enjoying, I have obtained peace The gifts of the Creator ever increase.
His bounties increase and are not exhausted and I have attained to the knower of hearts.
Millions of obstacles have all been removed and trouble draws not near me.
Peace, poise and pleasure in abundance are mine and all my appetite is stilled.
Nanak sings the praise of the Lord Master, wonderous is whose glory.
He, whose task it was, has Himself accomplished it, What can a mere man do?
The saints are adorned by singing God's praises and ever proclaim His victory.
Singing the Lord's praises and befriending the saints society happiness wells up.
He who made effort to construct the tank, how can His praise be recounted?
The merit of sixty-eight holies, alms, good actions and supremely pure deeds, is in bathing pure deeds, is in bathing in this tank.
To purify the sinner is the function of the Lord. Nanak's prop is the Name alone.
The Treasure of virtues is my Creator-Lord What praises of Thine should I utter, O Lord?
The prayer of the saints is "O Lord, bless us with the great elixir of Thy Name".
Give us Thy Name, grant us this boon and forget us not even for a moment.
O my tongue, utter thou the Lord's praises and ever continue singing them night and day.
He, who enshrines love for the Name; his soul and body are enraptured with Nectar.
Prays Nanak, my desire is fulfilled and I live, beholding Thine vision O Lord.
Rag Suhi 5th Guru. Chhant.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Reverend Rod, who is my Friend and my Master speaks sweetly.
I have grown weary of trying Him, but He speaks not harshly ever.
The Perfect Lord, who thinks not of my demerit, knows not the bitter word.
To purify the sinners is said to be the creed of my God. He ignores not even an iota of man's service.
He dwells in all the hearts, He is pervading everywhere and He is the nearest of the near.
Slave Nanak, ever seeks the Lord's refuge. He the Lord is his Nectar-sweet Friend.
O wonder struck am I beholding the peerless vision of God.
Beauteous is my reverend Lord, I am the dust of His lotus feet and podia.
Seeing the Lord I sustain life and am pacified None else is as great as He.
The Lord is pervading in the beginning, the middle and the end. In the ocean, land and sky, He the Lord is.
Contemplating the Lord's lotus feet, I have swum the sea and ferried across the dreadful world-ocean.
O Perfect Lord, Nanak seeks Thy refuge Thine limit and end he knows not.
My Loved Lord, the support of my very life, forsake not even for a moment.
The great True Guru has enjoined upon me the meditation of the inscrutable True Lord.
When I met the Saints-Guru and surrendered my soul, then obtained I the Name and my pain of birth and death hastened away.
I am blessed with poise, peace and many happiness and the knot of my ego is loosed.
The Lord is within and without all. He is above love and hate.
Slave Nanak has entered the Lord's sanctuary and the Beloved Lord alone is his mind's prop.
Searching, searching, I have found immovable Home of the Lord.
I have seen everything perishable It is then that I have attached my mind to the Lord's lotus-feet.
My Lord is immortal and I am His hand-maiden He dies not, nor does He come and go.
The Lord is all-brimful with faith, wealth, success (and salvation) and fulfills all the heart desired aspirations.
The Vedas and Simirtis sing the praises of the Creator and the adepts, strivers and silent sages contemplate Him.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the Lord, the Treasure of mercy and by great good fortune sings the Lord Master's praise.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Var of Suhi. With Slok 3rd Guru.
Slok 3rd Guru.
In a red robe the evil bride goes to enjoy another man.
Fascinated by the love of the other, she leaves the Husband of her home.
Deeming the sweet, she takes to an evil way. Her excessive licentiousness greatly increases her disease.
She forsake God, her Immaculate Spouse and afterwards suffers pangs of separation.
She, who turns towards the Guru, retraces her steps and makes the decoration of being imbued with the love of her God.
She then enjoy her True Spouse in peace and claps God's Name to her heart.
She is submissive and ever a virtuous wife and the Creator unites her with Himself.
Nanak, she who has obtained True God as her Spouse, shall ever be the happy wife.
3rd Guru.
O thou red robed meek bride, ever think of that Husband of thine.
Thus shalt thou adorn thy life and thy lineage too shall be emancipated along with.
Pauri.
The Lord of Himself established His throne, sky and the nether world.
By His order, He created the earth, the true abode of faith.
The True Lord, Merciful to the meek, Himself creates and destroys.
Thou, O Lord, reachest sustenance to all, wondrous is Thine Will.
Thou Thyself pervadest all and Thyself cherisheth every one.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Then alone, does the red-robed one becomes the true bride, when she accepts the True Name.
Please thou thy True Guru, then alone shalt thou be greatly beautified. Without God, there is no other place of rest.
Put on thou such decorations, that may never be tarnished and make thee love thy Spouse day and night.
Nanak, what is the characteristic of the chaste bride? Within her is Truth, her face is bright and she merges in her Groom.
3rd Guru.
O people, I am in red, and am wearing a red robe.
Through garbs, the Spouse is obtained not. The world has grown weary of wearing garbs.
Nanak they alone obtain the Groom who hear the Guru's instruction.
In this way is the Bridegroom met. Whatever pleases Him, that alone takes place.
Pauri.
By His Order, the Lord that created the world of the myriad kinds of beings.
O my Incomprehensible and Infinite True Lord, how great is Thy order, I knows not.
Some Thou unite with Thee, as they reflect on the Guru's hymns.
Immaculate are they who are imbued with the love of the True Lord and they still their evil self-conceit.
He whom thou unitest with Thee; He alone meets Thee, and He alone is true.
Slok 3rd Guru.
O thou red-robed woman, the whole world which is engrossed in evil-intent and in duality, is red.
The entire falsehood vanishes in a moment, like the shade of a tree which remains not stable.
The Guru-ward is the reddest of the red, as if she has adopted the madder colour.
She within whose mind abides God's ambrosial Name, turns away from mammon and enters the Lord's mansion.
Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto my Guru, meeting with whom I sing the Lord's praises.
3rd Guru.
The red colour is useless as by it the Bridegroom is obtained not.
It takes not long to fade. She who loves another sits as a widow.
The woman, who loves to a red costume is childish and double minded.
Make thou the True Gurbani thy crimson coloured clothes and let the fear and love of God be thy ornaments.
Nanak, ever true wives are they, who walk according to the True Guru's will.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself created His ownself and Himself He evaluates Himself.
His limit cannot be known. Through the Guru's hymns, is he understood.
The world wanders in the darkness of worldly love and duality.
The way ward find no place of rest and ultimately suffer transmigration.
Whatever pleases Him, that alone happens, Everyone walks subject to His command.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Vicious is the red-robed bride, who forsakes her Lord and cultivates love for another person.
She, the willful bride has neither modesty, nor self-abstinence. She ever tells lies, and is ruined by evil deeds.
She, who is so pre-destined, obtains the True Guru, as her Spouse.
She doffs all her red-robes and wears the ornaments of forbearance round her neck.
She obtains great honour in this world and the world beyond, and the whole world adorns her.
She, whom her Groom, the Creator enjoys stands out as His own and is confused not with another.
Nanak, the virtuous woman, who has the Imperishable Lord, as her Spouse, is for ever a true bride.
1st Guru.
The red colour of the worldly valuable is like the night's dream and a necklace without a thread.
The true Sikhs of the Guru, who reflects over the Lord assume the permanent dye of madder.
Nanak, with the supreme Nectar of the Lord's Love, all the sins are burnt to ashes.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself created this world and staged the wondrous play.
Of the five elements, the Lord created the body and infused into it worldly attachment, falsehood and self-conceit.
The ignorant ego-centric comes and goes and is caused to wander is existences.
Some the Lord Himself instructs in Divine Knowledge through the Guru.
Them, the Lord blesses with the storehouse of His devotion and the treasure of His Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
O red-robed woman, cast thou off thy red garb, then shalt thou come to profess love for thy Spouse.
Through the red-robe of mammon, none has attained to her Groom and the unwise apostate is burnt to death.
Meeting with the True Guru, the mortal casts off the red robe of wealth and eradicates his ego from within him.
Uttering the Lord's praises, the soul and body are imbued deep scarlet and tongue too is rendered vermilion.
Enshrining the Name in her mind and making the decoration of the Lord's fear and love she becomes true bride for aye.
Nanak by His grace, the bride attains to her Beloved's mansion and keeps Him clasped to her heart.
3rd Guru.
O bride, forsake thou the red-robe and embellish thyself with scarlet colour.
Reflecting over the Guru's hymns, thine coming and going shall cease.
Adorned and beauteous is the bride, in whose home, the Lord her Groom abides.
Nanak, the bride makes merry and the Enjoyer enjoys her.
Pauri.
The ignorant ego-centric is engrossed in the false love of the family.
He dies practising egotism and egoism and departs without taking any thing with him.
Misled by the love of another, he sees not the angel of death over his head.
When death's myrmidon seizes him, then the opportunity is lost.
As is the pre-ordained writ, so are the deeds, he does.
Slok 3rd Guru.
They are not called Satis, who burn themselves with their husbands 'corpses.
Nanak they are known as Satis, who die with the sheer shock of separation.
3rd Guru.
They too are known as Satis, who abide in modesty and contentment,
who wait upon their Lord and rising in the morning ever remember Him.
3rd Guru.
The wives burn themselves in the fire with their b husbands.
If they heartily love their Spouse, then suffer they great bodily and mental pang ever otherwise.
Nanak if they love not their husband, why should they burn themselves in fire?
Whether the husband be alive or dead, such wife remains far away from him.
Pauri.
O Creator, such a writ has Thou written, that Thou hast created woe along with weal.
No other gift is as great as the Name. It has no form or sign.
The Name is an inexhaustible treasure, By Guru's grace it abides in the mind.
In His Mercy, the Lord blesses man with His Name and then no writ of weal and woe is written.
They who embrace God's meditation; those, slaves meet Him through the slave's sentiment.
Slok 2nd Guru.
Why do those, who realise that they must depart make ostentations?
They who have no idea of departure, continue to arrange their worldly affairs.
2nd Guru.
Man amasses wealth for a night and in the morning he must depart.
Nanak, wealth goes not with him and then does he regret.
2nd Guru.
In the fine, the prisoner pays there is neither merit nor any goodness.
Nanak, the act, which the mortal performs with his sweet will, is the best.
2nd Guru.
Man's obstinacy, however much he may practise, can win not the Lord to his side.
O serf Nanak, he who offers the Lord true love, and meditates on the Name wins Him to his side.
Pauri.
The Creator, who created the world, He alone understands that.
He Himself created the universe and Himself shall destroy it after wards.
The whole world has grown weary of wandering through the four ages, but none knows the Lord's worth.
The True Guru has shown me the One Lord and my soul and body are comforted.
By Guru's grace, ever praise thou the Lord. That alone happens, what the Creator does.
Slok 2nd Guru.
They who fear the Lord, have no other fear. They who fear not the Lord have much fear.
Nanak this mystery is revealed when man is ushered into that Lord's court.
2nd Guru.
The walking ones associate with the walking and the flying ones with the flying.
The living ones associate with the living, and the dead with the dead.
Nanak, do thou praise Him who has established the creation.
Pauri.
They, who contemplate the True Lord and reflect over the Guru's hymns are true.
They still their ego, purify their soul and clasp the Lord's Name to their heart.
The fools are attached to their homes, mansions and balconies.
The apostates are enveloped by darkness and know not Him who created them.
He alone understands Thee, O True Lord, whom Thou instructest, What can an helpless mortal do?
Slok 3rd Guru.
O bride, then alone decorate thou Thyself, when thou first conciliates t thy Spouse.
Lest thy Groom comes not to thy couch and thine decorations go in vain.
When the mind of bride's Groom is pleased, then alone the decorations become her.
When the Groom loves His bride, then does the making of her decorations become acceptable.
O bride, make thou Lord's fear thy ornaments, the Name-Nectar thy betel and the Lord's love thy food,
and surrender thou thy body and soul to thy Spouse and then shall He enjoy thee.
3rd Guru.
The wife takes collyrium, flowers, betel and otto of roses and decorates herself.
But if her husband comes not to her bed, it all goes in vain.
3rd Guru.
They are not said to be husband and wife, who merely sit together.
Rather they alone are called husband and wife, who have one soul in two bodies.
Pauri.
Without the Lord's fear man can perform not His service, nor can perform not His service, nor can he love the Name.
Meeting with the True Guru, Lord's fear wells up and with the Lord's fear and love man's form is embellished.
He whose body and soul are dyed with the Lord's love still his ego and desire.
The soul and body of him, whom Lord, the Enemy of ego meets, become pure and very beauteous.
Fear and love all belong to Him. He, the True Lord is pervading the Universe.
Slok 1st Guru.
Hail, hail unto Thee, O Lord, who having created the world, hast made us.
Thus hast Thou made the ocean currents, the ocean, water pools, vegetation, clouds and the mountains.
Creating the creation Thyself, Thou Thyself standest midst it, O Lord Thou art all in all.
The service of the Guru-wards is approved and in celestial beatitude they practise the Name's quintessence.
They obtain the wages of their labour and continually ask for alms at the Lord's door.
Nanak, brimful is the care-free Lord's court. O my True care-free Lord, none return empty from Thy court.
1st Guru.
The bright beauteous pearl-like teeth are studded with the jewels of the eyes.
Nanak, old age is their enemy. They waste away when they grow old.
Pauri.
Ever, ever praise I my God and surrender unto Him my body, soul and this frame.
Through the Guru's Word, I have obtained the True, Profound and unfathomable Lord.
My God, the Gem of gems is permeating my soul, body and heart.
My pain of birth and death is eradicated and I shall not again go round this circuit.
O Nanak, praise thou the Lord's Name. He is ocean of excellences.
Slok 1st Guru.
O Nanak, burn thou thine this body, which burnt one, has forgotten the Lord's Name.
The refuse of sins is accumulating in the low-lying tank of thy soul. Hereafter the hand shall not be able to reach there to cleanse it.
1st Guru.
Nanak, wicked are the mind's deeds. They can be counted not.
Much torture shall I have to suffer for these misdeeds. But if the Lord forgives, then I shall be buffetted not.
Pauri.
True is the command, that the Lord sends forth and true the order that He issues.
He, the ever Immovable and Wise Lord is pervading everywhere.
By Guru's grace, serve thou the resplendent True Lord.
Through Guru's instruction enjoy thou the love of Him who has made the perfect make.
The Lord is Inaccessible, Incomprehensible and invisible. Realise thou Him, through the Guru's grace.
Slok 1st Guru.
O Nanak, the bag of rupees is brought and placed in the Lord's court,
and there the counterfeit and the genuine are assayed.
1st Guru.
Men of evil minds and thievish bodies, go to bathe at the pilgrim stations.
The one part of their bodily filth is washed off by bathing, but they contract two more parts of mental filth.
A gourd is externally washed, but within it is the pure poison.
The saint is well-off without bathing. A thief is always a thief whether he bathes or not.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself issues commands and yokes the mortals to their task.
Some, He, of Himself attaches to Himself and they obtain peace from the Guru.
This mind hastens in ten directions. The Guru stops and holds it.
Everyone longs for the Name, but one is blessed with it by the Guru's instruction.
None can obliterate what God has writ in his destiny in the beginning. Slok 1st Guru.
1st Guru.
The sun and the moon are the two lamps which lighten the fourteen (worlds or bazars).
As many as there are mortals, so many are traders.
The shops are open and the trade goes on.
Who-so-ever arrives, he is bound to depart.
The Righteous Judge is the broker who puts the Mark.
Nanak, they who earn the Name profit become acceptable.
Congratulation pour in when they arrive at their own home,
and they obtain the greatness of the True Name.
1st Guru.
Even when the nights are dark, the white retain their same white colour.
Even if the day be heated very white, the black maintain their black dye.
The blind fools are without wisdom and blind is their under standing.
Nanak, they who are bereft of the Lord's grace, obtain not honour ever.
Pauri.
The True Lord of Himself, has made the body fortress.
Some are ruined in the love of another and they are engrossed in self-conceit.
Difficult to obtain is this human life, but the apostates are in great agony.
He, whom the Lord Himself instructs and whom the True Guru blesses, realises the Lord.
The entire world the Lord has made. His play and amongst all He is contained.
Slok 1st Guru.
It is the habit of thieves, adulterers, prostitutes and pimps,
that they contract friendship with the irreligious.
They know not the worth of God's praise and Satan ever abides within them.
If a donkey be plastered with sandal paste, he will still role with (in) dust.
Nanak, by spinning falsehood, the web of falsehood is woven.
False is the cloth and its measurement. False is the raiment and the pride thereof.
1st Guru.
The criers, the flute-players, the horn-blowers and as also the eulogists, live on the public charity.
Some are bestowers and some the mumpers. Only the contemplators of the Name become acceptable.
They who hear and acceptable. They who hear and accept the Lord's Name, O Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto them.
Pauri.
The love of mammon is all false and false becomes he, who loves it.
Through pride man is involved in strife and in strifes, he perishes.
By Guru's grace, the strifes are ended and man sees the Lord pervading all.
Recognising the Pervading soul contained everywhere one crosses the dreadful world-ocean.
His light merges in the Supreme Light, and he is absorbed in God's Name.
1st Guru.
O True Guru, bless me thou with alms as thou art the Omnipotent Beneficent Lord.
Bless me that I may still my ego, self conceit, lust, wrath and I-am-ness.
Completely burn thou my greed and avarice and grant me the prop of the Lord's Name.
Day and night keep thou me fresh and immaculate and allow me not ever to be soiled with sins.
O Nanak, in this way am I released. Through thy grace, O my Guru, I am blessed with Peace.
1st Guru.
There is but one Spouse of all the women, who stand at the Lord's door.
Nanak, they ask about their Spouse's news, from those who are imbued with His love.
1st Guru.
All are imbued with the love of their Groom of what account am I, a discarded one?
Within my body there are so many demerits. My Husband turns not His mind towards me.
1st Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto those, within whose mouth is the Lord's praise.
All the nights are for the chaste bride, Let me, who is separated from Thee, O Lord, have even one night.
Pauri.
I, a mumper of Thine door, O God, pray for alms, In Thy mercy, bless Thou me with it.
Unite me, Thy slave, with the supreme Guru, that I my obtain Thine Name, O God.
Blend Thou my light with Thy supreme Light, that the celestial strain may resound within me.
Within my mind I sing the Lord's praise and eulogise the Lord's Name.
The Lord Himself is contained in the world, O man, bear thou love with Him.
Slok 1st Guru.
They who obtain not the elixir of love and the delight of their Groom,
are like the guest of an empty house, who goes as empty-handed, as he comes.
1st Guru.
He receives hundreds of reproaches in a day and thousands in a night,
as forsaking the Lord's praise and eulogy, the swan is attached to the skeletons.
Accursed is such a life, wherein man distends his belly by eating.
Nanak, without the True Name, all the Friends turn into enemies.
Pauri.
The Bard ever sings God's praises to embellish his life.
The Guru-ward serves and praises the True Lord and enshrines Him in his heart.
By loving, Thy Name, he obtains his own home and mansion.
Through the Guru, I have obtained the Name and I am a sacrifice unto the Guru,
O my Creator Lord, Thou Thyself embellishes the mortals.
Slok 1st Guru.
When the lamp is lit, darkness is dispelled,
similarly by reading the religious books, the sinful intellect is destroyed.
When the sun rises, the moon is seen not.
Where divine knowledge appears, ignorance is dispelled.
The reading of the Vedas is the world's occupation.
The learned men, read, study and deliberate over them.
Without understanding the Lord, everyone is ruined.
Nanak, by Guru's grace, the mortal is ferried across.
1st Guru.
They who relish not the Word, love not the Lord's Name,
and speak insipidly with their tongue are ever, ever disgraced.
Nanak, they act according to their wrought deeds, which none can erase.
Pauri ]
He who praises his Lord, obtains glory.
He drives away his self-conceit from within himself and enshrines the True Name in his mind.
Through the True Gurbani, he utters God's praises and is blessed with true peace.
He is united with the Lord after a long separation. The Omnipotent Guru, makes him meet the Lord.
Like this, the filthy soul is cleansed and he contemplates the Lord's Name.
Slok 1st Guru.
With the fresh leaves of the body and the flowers of virtues, Nanak weaves garland.
The Lord desires such garlands why then selectest thou other branches?
2nd Guru.
Nanak they, In whose home their Spouse abides, enjoy the spring season.
They, whose spouse is in distant land, continue burning day and night.
Pauri.
If the mortal dwells on the great True Guru's Word, the Lord Himself mercifully pardons him.
Night and day I serve the True Lord, utter His praises and merge my soul in Him.
Infinite is my Lord, None knows His limit.
Clinging to the True Guru's feet, man ever contemplates the Lord's Name.
He obtains the fruit, which he desires and all his wishes are fulfilled in his very home.
Slok 1st Guru.
The spring brings bloom but He, the Lord blooms earlier still.
By his blooming, everything blooms, but He needs none else to blossom.
2nd Guru.
Meditate thou on Him, who comes earlier than the spring season.
Nanak, praise thou Him who gives support to all.
2nd Guru.
By uniting outwardly, the united one unites not, he meets, if he meets inwardly.
He who meets in spirit, is said to have really met.
Pauri.
Praise thou the Lord God's Name and do the true deeds.
Attaching to other tasks, the mortal is cast again in existences.
Imbued with Name, man attains to the Lord and through the Name sings His praises.
Eulogizing that Lord through Guru's Word, the mortal merges in the Lord's Name.
Fruitful is the service of the True Guru Serving him, man obtains the fruit.
Slok 2nd Guru.
Some have some others as their friends, I, unhonoured, have only thee, O Lord.
Why should I not die of weeping, until Thou comest into my mind.
2nd Guru.
When there is weal, then contemplate thou thy Spouse. In woe too, remember thou Him.
Says Nanak, O wise bride, like this shalt thou meet thy Groom.
Pauri.
How can I, a worm like being, praise Thee, O Lord, Great is Thine great is thine greatness
Thou art Unapproachable, Compassionate and Unfathomable, of Thyself, Thou unitest man with Thee.
Without Thee, I have no other friend. In the end Thou alone shalt be my succourer.
They, who enter, Thy sanctuary; Them redeemest Thou.
Nanak, care-free is my Lord, He has not even an iota of avarice.
Rag Suhi. Hymns of reverend sire Kabir and of all the Saints.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Taking thy birth, what has thou done?
The Lord's Name, Thou hast not uttered ever.
Thou rememberst not the Lord. To what mal-inclinations art thou attached?
What preparation art thou making for thy death, O luckless man? Pause.
Through pain and pleasure thou hast cherished thy family.
At the time of death, thou shalt bear thy agony all alone.
When death's myrmidon seizes thee by the Neck, then shalt thou shriek aloud.
Says Kabir, why didst thou not remember thy Lord before hand?
Suhi Kabir ji.
My childish soul palpitates and trembles,
I know not, how my Spouse will deal with me?
Thy night of youth has passed away, Let not thy day of old age pass too in vain.
The black bees have gone and the white cranes have come and settled. Pause.
In the unbaked earthen pot the water remains not.
When the soul swan departs, the body withers away.
I bedeck myself like a virgin young girl,
but how can I enjoy dalliance without my spouse?
My arm is pained by driving away the crows.
Says Kabir, like this is ended the life tale.
Suhi Kabir Ji.
Thy rule has ended, thou shalt have to render thy account.
The hard-hearted death's ministers have come to take Thee.
What hast thou earned and where hast thou lost?
Come quickly. Thou art summoned to the court.
Get up, in this very condition. The Righteous judge has called thee.
The warrant of God's court has come for thee. Pause.
(He says to Yama); It is my request that I have yet to collect some outstanding in the village,
and I shall adjust them to-night.
I shall also pay you something for your expenses,
and the morning prayer I shall say with you on the way in.
He who is imbued with the Lord's love in the society of the saints,
blest, blest and very lucky is that God's servant.
Here and there the Lord's slaves are ever happy.
They win the invaluable wealth of the human life.
Though waking, the man is in sleep, Thus loses he his life.
The property and wealth, he has amassed becomes another's.
Says Kabir, only those persons go astray,
who forgetting their Groom, play with dust.
Suhi Kabir ji, Lalit.
Tired are the eyes, tired are the ears of hearing, and tired are the ears of hearing, and tired too is the beauteous body.
Driven forward by old age, all the senses are worm out, but the love of wealth alone grows not weary.
O mad man, thou hast gained not the Lord's gnosis and meditation.
Thou hast lost thy human life in vain. Pause.
O mortal, as long as there is breath in the body, till then serve thou that Lord of thine.
When thy body perishes, even then thy love for the Lord, shall perish not and thou shalt abide in the Lord's feet.
He within whose mind God enshrines His Name, his thirst is quenched.
He realizes the will of his Lord, plays the game of chess and throws the dice of the conquest of his mind.
The persons, who know and contemplate the Imperishable Lord, they are not destroyed at all.
Says Kabir, the men, who know to throw the dice, lose not their game ever.
Suhi Lalit Kabir Ji.
Of the one body fortress, are the five rulers and all the five demand revenue.
I have cultivated no one's land. To make such to payment is indeed painful.
O God' s people, the village accountant ever tortures me.
Raising my arm aloft, I complained to my Guru and he did save me. Pause.
The nine surveyors and the ten judges go on tour and allow not the subject to live in peace.
They measure not with a full tape and take much bribe.
The one Lord contained in the seventy two chambers of the body and He has written off my account.
I have searched the Righteous Judge office and I owe him not even an iota.
Let no one slander the saints. The Lord and the saint are one.
Says Kabir, I have obtained that Guru, whose Name is True gnosis.
Rag Suhi. The Hymns. Siri Ravidas Ji.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The chaste wife knows her Spouse worth.
Shedding her ego, she enjoys peace and pleasure.
She surrenders her body and mind to her spouse and remains not distinct from Him.
She sees and hears not another, nor speaks she to another.
How can he know the pain of another,
within whose mind there is no sympathy. Pause.
The discarded bride, is miserable and loses both sides (worlds),
who performs not her Spouse's service continually.
Agonizing is the way by the bridge over the fire of hell.
With her, there will be no comrade and she will have to go alone.
Stricken by pain, I have come to Thy door O Merciful Master.
I have great thirst for meeting thee, O Lord, but thou answer not.
Says Ravidas, I have sought Thy protection, O Lord,
as Thou willest, so effect Thou my salvation.
Suhi.
The day which comes, that day shall pass off.
Man must march on, nothing remains stable.
Our comrades are going, I too must go.
Thou hast to go far off, Death is hovering over thy head.
Awake thou, O silly man, why art thou asleep?
Thou deemest the worldly life to be true. Pause.
He, who has blessed thee with life shall reach thee sustenance.
In every heart runs He a shop.
Embrace thou Lord' meditation and lay aside thy egotism and egoism.
Within thy mind, remember thou the Lord's Name betimes.
Thy life has passed away, but thou hast not set aright thy path.
Evening has set in and soon there shall be darkness on all the ten sides.
Says Ravidas, O ignorant mad-man,
thinkest thou not that this world is the house of death.
Suhi.
Man has lofty mansions, halls and kitchens.
After death, he can remain not in them, even for a moment.
This body is like the tenement of straw.
When the grass is burnt, it is blended with the dust. Pause.
His relations, family and friends, begin to say,
Take him out quickly.
The wife of his house, who used to remain clasped to his body and heart,
she cries out "Ghost, Ghost" and runs away from him.
Says Ravidas, death has plundered the whole world,
but I have escaped by uttering the Name of the One Lord.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
Rag Suhi Hymns of. Sheikh Farid Ji.
Ceaselessly burning and inflaming, I wring my hands.
Seeking out that Spouse of mine I am gone crazy Thou.
O Spouse art angry with me in Thy mind.
In me are demerits. The fault lies not with my Spouse.
My Lord, I know not Thy worth.
Losing my youth, I repent afterwards. Pause.
O black cuckoo, what qualities have rendered thee black?
I have been burnt by separation from my Beloved.
Without her Groom, how can she ever obtain peace?
When the Lord becomes merciful, then He unites me with Himself.
The lonesome bride writhes in the world well.
She has neither a mate, nor a friend.
In His mercy the Lord has united me with the society of the saints.
When I look again, then I find God as my Helper.
Very saddening is the path, that I am to tread.
It is sharper than the two-edged sword, and exceedingly narrow.
On that lies my path.
O Sheikh Farid, think of that path as early as possible.
Suhi, Lalit.
Thou couldest not make the raft at the time, when thou oughtest to have made it.
When the sea is full and overflowing, then it is difficult to cross over.
Touch thou not the saf-flower with thy hand, its colour shall fade away, my dear. Pause.
Firstly the bride herself is weak and over and above this, her Spouse's order is hard to bear.
As the milk returns not to the teats, so the soul meets not with the same body again.
Says Farid, O my mates, when the Spouse calls,
the soul departs crest-fallen and this body becomes a heap of ashes.
There is but one God. True is His Name, creative His personality and Immortal His form. he is without fear, sans enmity, unborn and self-illumined and is obtained by the Guru's grace.
Rag Bilawal 1st Guru. Chaupadas.
Thou art a sovereign, How is it to Thy greatness?
As thou inspire me, so do I praise Thee, O Lord, Myself, I am ignorant and can say not Thine praises.
Bless Thou me with understanding to sing Thine excellences,
so that I may abide in Truth, according to Thy will, O Lord. Pause.
Whatever has happened, all that has come from Thee. Thou has friendship with all.
I know not thy limit, O my Lord. What wisdom have I, a blind man?
What should I say? Whilst talking of Thee I see that I cannot describe the Indescribable Lord.
Whatever pleases Thee, that alone speak I and that is but an iota of thy greatness.
Amongst so many dogs, I am a stranger dog and bark for this body's belly of mine.
Though Nanak be bereft of Lord's meditation, even then he sill bear the Name of his Master.
Bilawal 1st Guru.
My body is clothed with the mendicant's dress, my mind is the temple and I bathe in my heart's pilgrim's place.
The One Lord's Name abides in my mind and I shall not be born again.
My soul is pierced by the Merciful Master, O my mother.
Who knows the pain of another?
Without the Lord, I think not of another. Pause.
O my Inaccessible, Incomprehensible, Invisible and Infinite Lord, take care of me.
Thou art completely contained in sea, land, lower and upper regions and in every heart is thine light.
My instruction and understanding are all Thine. My mansions and sanctuaries belong to Thee.
Without Thee, O my Lord, I know not any other. I ever sing Thine praises.
Men and other beings all seek Thy protection, All anxiety for them rests with Thee.
Whatever pleases Thee, O Lord that is good. this alone is Nanak's supplication.
Bilawal 1st Guru.
The Lord Himself is the Divine Word and Himself the insignia of approval.
He Himself is the hearer and Himself the Knower.
Making the universe Himself; the Lord beholds His might.
Thou art the beneficent Lord and at Thy door, the Name alone is accepted.
Such is the Name of the Immaculate Luminous Lord.
I am Thine beggar and Thou art the Invisible and Inscrutable Lord of mine. Pause.
The love of worldly valuables is like the love of an accursed,
ugly, unchaste she-sorcerer.
Sovereignty and beauty are false and last but for four days.
I f man is blessed with the name, his inner darkness changes into illumination.
I have tasted and then renounced mammon, so no doubt is left within my mind.
He whose father is manifest cannot be illegitimate.
To the One Lord, has no fear.
He, the Creator, does and makes others do everything.
He, who dies by the name, conquers his mind through the mind.
Restraining his mind thus, he keeps it enshrined in the True Lord.
He knows not another and is a sacrifice unto his Guru.
Imbued with the Name, O Nanak he is emancipated.
Bilawal 1st Guru.
By Guru's instruction, man obtains the Lord's meditations.
Imbued with the Lord's Love, man is satiated.
The crazy egocentrics go astray in doubt.
How can one do without God? He is realised through the Guru's instruction.
Without having the Lord's sight, how can I sustain life, o my mother?
Without God, my soul can live not even for a moment. The True Guru has imparted to me this true understanding. Pause.
Forgetting my Lord, I die in pain.
With every breath and morsel of mine, I contemplate and seek my God.
I ever remain detached and am gladdened with God's Name.
By the Guru's grace, I have now realised God to be with me.
By abiding in the Guru's will, the Lord's ineffable discourse is described.
The Guru shows the Unfathomable and Unapprehensible Lord.
Without the Guru, what way of life and service can be practised?
Stilling my ego and walking in the Guru's way I am absorbed in the Name.
The apostates are separated from the Lord and amass false capital.
The Guru-wards are blessed with the Glory of the Lord's Name.
God has shown mercy unto me and has made me the slave of His slaves.
The Lord's Name is the wealth and capital of serf Nanak,
Bilawal 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Cursed, cursed is the food, cursed, cursed the sleep and cursed, cursed the robe which one wears on the body.
Accursed is the body along with one attains not to his Master now.
The opportunity lost comes not to man's hand again and he loses his life in vain.
He, who forgets the Lord's feet; him duality allows not to embrace Lord's love.
O the Life-Giver Lord of the world, thou hast numberless slaves and serfs, Their sorrows, thou sheddest all. Pause.
My Beneficent Master, Thou art my compassionate Lord of mercy. What are these poor beings before Thee?
Emancipated and bound are all from Thee. It is proper to say and speak thus.
He who turns Guru-wards is termed as emancipated and the helpless egocentric are bound down.
That man alone is emancipated who enshrines affections for the One Lord and ever abides with the Lord.
His depth and loftiness can be described not, The True Lord Himself embellishes them.
They, who stray in doubt, are termed as apostates. They are neither on this side nor on the yonder one.
He, to whom the Lord shows mercy; that man obtains Him and reflects over the Guru's hymns.
Living in the midst of mammon, the Lord's slave is redeemed.
Nanak, he on whose forehead it is so writ, annihilates and destroys death.
Bilawal 3rd Guru.
How can the unweighable Lord be weighed?
If anyone else be as great as He, then alone can he understand Him.
Without Him, There is not another.
How can His worth be ascertained?
By Guru's grace, the Lord comes to abide in the mind.
If man's love of duality goes, then alone understands he the Lord. Pause.
The Lord Himself is the Assayer and applies the touch-stone.
He Himself assays the coin and Himself gives it currency.
Becoming a perfect Weigher, the Lord Himself weighs.
He, the Unique Lord Himself knows everything.
All manifestations of mammon emanate from Him.
He alone is rendered pure, whom He unites with Himself.
Mammon attaches to him, with whom the Lord attaches it.
When he reveals His entire Truth unto the man, then merges he in the True Lord.
The Lord Himself is the spiritualism and Himself the materialism.
He Himself instructs and Himself becomes manifest.
The Lord Himself is the True Guru and Himself the Guru's word.
Nanak, the Lord Himself utters and preaches the Guru's Word.
Bilawal 3rd Guru.
My Lord has made me His slave and the Lord alone has blessed me with His service. What other arguments can one advance?
Such is Thy play, O my Unique Lord, that thou art contained amongst all.
When the True Guru is reconciled, then is the man absorbed in the Lord's Name.
He, on whom is God's mercy, attains to the True Guru and night and day easily remains absorbed in the Lord's meditation. Pause.
How can man perform Thy service, O Lord? How can he take pride on his effort?
when Thou pullest back Thine power, then can any one demonstrate by discoursing, O Lord?
O Master, Thou Thyself are the Guru, Thyself the Disciple and Thyself the Treasure of virtues.
As Thou movest and as it pleases Thee, O illustrious Lord, so does any one move.
Says Nanak, Thou art the True Lord, who is it that knows Thine deeds?
Some Thou blesseth with glory in their own home and some wander in doubt and pride.
Bilawal 3rd Guru.
The Perfect Lord has made the Perfect make See Thou the One Lord contained all over.
In this play (world), the glory is of the True Name, So no one should take pride on himself.
He, who imbibes the wisdom of the Guru, he merges in the True Guru.
He who heartily realises this Gurbani, within his mind abides the Lord's Name. Pause.
Now the quintessence of the experience of the four ages is this; that for the human race, the one Lord's Name alone is the treasure of blessings.
Celibacy, self-discipline and pilgrimages are the faith of those ages. In the Darkage the glorification of Lord's Name is the only righteous deed.
Every age has its own faith. Examine and see thou the Vedas and Puranas.
In this world, perfect and approved are they alone, who through the Guru, meditate on the Lord God.
Says Nanak, by embracing affection for the True Lord, mind's ego is stilled.
All they who utter and hear the Name obtain peace and they who believe in it, attain the whole treasure.
Bilawal 3rd Guru.
He, whom the Supreme Guru himself imbues with the Lord's Love;
in his home is all joy and he is embellished with the Guru's Word.
The women come and sing the Lord's praise.
Meeting with the Beloved, eternal peace is obtained.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who enshrine the Lord in their mind.
Meeting with the Lord's slave, peace is attained and the mortal automatically sings God's praise. Pause.
They, who ever remain imbued in Thine love and Joy,
O Reverend Lord; Thou Thyself comest to abide in their mind.
They, of themselves attain eternal glory.
The exalted Guru makes them meet with the Master and unites them in His union.
By Guru's grace, they are imbued, imbued with the Lord's Name.
They dwell in their own Home and sing God's praise.
With the deep red dye of the Lord's Love they look beauteous.
This day wears not off ever and they are absorbed in the True Lord.
When the Lord's Name abides in The mind, the darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
Meeting with my friend the True Guru, I have obtained the Divine knowledge.
They who are imbued with the True Name, go not in the circuit of transmigration, again.
Nanak, my Perfect Guru implants the Name within the mortal.
Bilawal 3rd Guru.
From the Perfect Guru I have obtained glory.
All-too-spontaneously the Name has come to abide within my mind.
Ego and mammon I have burnt with the Name.
Through Guru, I have obtained honour in the True Court.
I now serve the Lord of the universe, I have no other work to do.
Night and day, joy wells up within my mind and through the Guru, pray I for the bounty of the bliss-giving Name of Thine. Pause.
The mind's faith, I have obtained from the mind itself.
Through the Perfect Guru, I have realised the Name.
Some rare one looks upon life and death alike.
He dies not again, nor sees he the death's myrmidon.
In the mind itself are the fortresses of all the treasures.
The True Guru has shown them to me and my ego is stilled.
So my attention ever remains fixed on the supreme Lord,
and night and day sing I the Name alone.
I have obtained magnificence in the present time,
by contemplating on the Name, through the Perfect Guru.
Wherever I see, I find the Lord pervading there.
He is ever the Peace-Giver. His worth can be evaluated not.
By perfect good fortune, I have obtained the Guru,
and within my mind he has shown me the Name treasure.
The Guru's word is very sweet unto me.
Nanak, my desire is quenched and my soul and body are comforted.
Rag Bilawal. 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru grace, He is obtained.
Endeavor and intelligence are the bounties of the Lord, the Knower of hearts. As He implies so do the men do.
As the violin-player plays upon the strings of the violin, so do the men instruments play in the Lord's hand.
O man, utter thou the Lord's Name with thy tongue.
By virtue of the writ inscribed on my forehead, I have attained to my Guru and the Lord God is enshrined in my mind. Pause.
Involved in worldly valuables, the mortal wanders about. O Lord God, save thou him as he is Thy servant.
As Thou saved Prahlad from the clutches of Harnakhsha and ushered him into Thine refuge.
The state and life's department of how many sinners should I narrate whom, thou O Lord, hast purified?
(Ravidas) The tanner, who handled leather and carried dead beasts, entered God's sanctuary and was saved.
O Lord Merciful to the meek, Thou ferriest thine devotees across the world-ocean, save thou me, the sinner, from the sins.
My God, make me the slave of the slave of thine slaves Serf Nanak is called an attendant of Thine.
Bilawal 4th Guru.
I am foolish, unwise and of ignorant understanding I seek Thine shelter, O my Unborn Lord.
Have mercy on me, O my Master and save Thou me, I am unfortunate, low and a mere stone.
O my soul, contemplate thou the Lord Master's Name.
By Guru's instruction, the Lord's Nectar is obtained. Forsake thou other fruitless deeds. Pause.
The Lord's slaves and serfs, them the Lord savest. To save me, the virtueless one, O Lord, is to Thy glory.
Without Thee I have not another, O Lord. By great good fortune, God is meditated upon.
Accursed is the life of those, who cherish not the Name. They endure great hardship.
They are goaded into existences over and over again, as they are unfortunate fools bereft of God's grace.
The Name is the support of the Lord's slave. For them good fortune is pre-ordained by God.
Fruitful is the birth of those, O slave Nanak, within whom the great True Guru has implanted the Lord's Name.
Bilawal 4th Guru.
My mind is tempted by worldly love and sin, It is greatly filled with the filth of evil intellect.
Thine service I can perform not, O Lord. How can I ignorant one, cross over?
O my soul contemplate thou on thy Lord, the Lord of men.
The Lord has shown mercy unto His slave and meeting with the True Guru, he is ferried across the world-ocean. Pause.
My Lord God, my father and my formless Master, bless me thou with such understanding that I may sing Thy praise.
They who are attached with Thee, O Lord, are saved, as does iron swim across, along with wood.
Paltry and low is the understanding of the perverse persons. they serve not the Lord Master.
Unfortunate and vicious are those persons. They die and suffer transmigration again and again,
They, whom thou, O Lord unitest with Thyself, they bathe in the Guru's tank of contentment.
By God's meditation, the filth of evil-understanding is washed off, and slave Nanak is ferried across
Bilawal 4th Guru.
Come, ye saints, my brothers, meeting together, let us recite the Lord God's discourses.
In the Darkage, the Lord God's Name is the boat and Guru the boatman, Through the Guru's Word, thou swim across, the world-ocean.
O my soul, utter thou the praise of the Lord Master.
By virtue of the scribed writ on the forehead, cross thou over the world-ocean, through singing God's praise, in the saints guild. Pause.
Within the city of body abides the Lord's sublime Nectar. Instruct me, O saints, how am I to obtain it?
Serving the True Guru, obtain thou the fruitful vision of God and meeting him quaff thou immortalising Lord's elixir.
The Lord Master God's Name is the sweet Nectar. O saint of God, taste it and see.
By Guru's instruction the Lord's nectar seems sweet. With it are forgotten all the sensuous pleasures.
The elixir of the Lord Master's name is panacea of all the ills Wait upon the Lord, O ye saints.
There are four cardinal boons. Meditating on God by Guru's instruction, all the four are attained to.
Bilawal 4th Guru.
Any one of the militarists, literates, agriculturists and menials has the right to contemplate the Lord's Name, the Name, that is worthy of contemplation.
Deeming the great True Guru, as the Supreme Lord, worship thou Him and the whole day and night ever perform His service.
O God's people see the True Guru with your eyes.
Uttering the Guru's Divine Word through the Guru's instruction ye shalt obtain the fruit that, ye desirest. Pause.
The Mortal thinks of various and many efforts, but that alone happens which is to happen.
All the men seek their own good. But the Lord does that what is not in my mind and thought.
O man, renounce thou thy mind's cleverness, however hard this task might be.
Receiving instruction from the great True Guru, reflect thou upon the Lord God's name, night and day.
Wisdom and sublime wisdom are in Thy power, O Lord, I am the instrument and Thou art the Player.
O the Creator Lord Master of slave Nanak, I speak as per your will.
Bilawal 4th Guru.
I reflect over the sublime person, the source of bliss and am ever happy and gay.
No more is the sway of the Righteous King over me and I have cast off all subservience of Death's Courier.
O my soul utter thou the Name of Lord Master God.
Obtaining the Exalted True Guru, by the great good fortune, I sing the praise of the Lord supreme bliss. Pause.
The unwise apostates are the captives of mammon and continue roaming about in mammon.
Burnt by desire and bound by their past deeds they go around like the oilman's ox.
The Guru-wards, who are attuned the Guru's service swim across. The very fortunate ones perform Guru's service.
They, who meditate on God, obtain the fruit and all their bonds of mammon are broken.
God Himself is the Master and Himself the servant, the World-Lord is all by Himself.
O slave Nanak, by Himself the Lord is pervading every where. As He keeps us, so live we.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace he is obtained.
Bilawal 4th Guru.
O brother, utter thou the Lord's Name, which purifies the sinners. God emancipated His saints and devotees.
The Lord is fully pervading every where. The Lord's Name is contained in sea and land. Ever sing thou, O man, the praise of God, the Dispeller of woes. Pause.
The Lord has made my life fruitful.
I ponder over the Lord God, the Eradicator of anguish.
I have met the Guru, the Bestower of salvation.
The Lord has made fruitful my pilgrimage.
Meeting the society of saints I sing God's praise.
O my soul rest thy hope on the Lord's Name,
that thy love of another pay perish.
He, who in hope, remains without hope;
that person meets with his God.
He, who sings the glories of the Lord's Name;
slave Nanak repairs to his feet.
Rag Bilawal 5th Guru Chaupadas.
There is but God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The mortal contracts love with what he sees.
How can meet Thee, whom I see not, O my imperishable Lord?
O Lord, show mercy unto me and put me on Thy path,
and attach me to the skirt of the saints' guild.
How can the world-ocean of poison be crossed?
The True Guru's ship, ferries the mortal across. Pause
The worldly valuables shake one like the wind.
God's saints remain ever stable.
In weal and woe they remain unaffected.
The Guru, Himself is their protector over their head.
The serpent of mammon is holding all in its girdle,
Like the burning of a moth seeing the lamp, people burn to death in ego.
Though man may make all decorations yet he attains not to his Lord.
When the Guru becomes merciful, then he make him meet the Lord.
Sad at heart, I go about inquiring about my Lord's jewel.
The invaluable jewel is obtained not by any effort.
The body is the Lord's mansion; within that abides Lord, the jewel.
The Guru has removed the veil and I am delighted seeing the jewel.
He who tastes it, knows its relish,
like the dumb man, in his mind's wonder.
God, the Embodiment of bliss I see everywhere.
Uttering God's praise slave Nanak has merged in Him.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Bright Guru has blessed me with all bliss.
His servant, he has yoked to his service.
Contemplating the Incomprehensible and Inscrutable Lord, no obstacle befalls the man.
Singing the Lord's praise, the soil (of my soul)is sanctified.
Uttering the Name of God, the sins are obliterated. Pause.
The Lord Himself is pervading all places,
whose immense glory is manifest, since the prime and beginning of ages,
By Guru's grace, sorrow overtakes not the mortal.
The Guru's feet seem sweet unto my mind.
Without any hitch the Lord abides in all the places.
When the True Guru is greatly pleased I obtain all the comforts.
The Transcendent Lord has become my Protector.
Wherever I see, Him along with me.
Says Nanak, His serf, the Lord sustains.
Bilawal 5th Guru,
O my loved Lord, though art the Treasure of bliss.
Infinite are Thine excellences, O my Lord Master.
I, an orphan, have entered Thine sanctuary.
O Lord, have mercy on me, that I may meditate on Thy feet.
My Master, take pity on me and abide Thou within my mind,
and let me, the meritless one, hold on to Thy skirt. Pause.
If I remember the Lord, what calamity, can then befall me?
God's slave suffers not pain caused by Yama.
All the troubles of him pass away,
who remembers God, and with whom the Lord ever abides.
The Lord's Name is the support of my soul and body,
and forgetting the Name the body is reduced to ashes.
Contemplating the Lord, all the affairs are adjusted.
Forsaking his Lord, the mortal becomes subservient to all.
By enshrining love for the Lord's lotus feet,
I am rid of all the evil thoughts and ways.
Within my mind and body is the Name of the Lord God.
Nanak, within the home of the Lord's serfs, abides the eternal bliss.
Rag Bilawal. 5th Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
In my mind is Thine Prop, O my Beloved, in my mind is Thine prop.
Useless are other ingenuities, O my love, Thou alone art my Protector. Pause.
He, whom the Perfect True Guru meets, O my dear; that person is rendered blissful.
He alone performs the Guru's service, O dear, unto whom the Lord becomes merciful.
Accredited is the personality of the (spiritually) Bright Guru God, who is brimful with all the might,
Nanak, the Guru Himself is the Transcendent Lord Master. Ever, ever-present is he, the Guru.
I live by continually hearing the glory of those, who know their Lord.
God's Name they contemplate, God's Name They utter and with God's Name their soul is imbued.
I Thy slave pray for the Service of Thine saints, Through Thine perfect grace. such a service is performed.
This is the prayer of Nanak "O Lord, may I see the vision of Thine saints".
They are said to be very fortunate, O dear, who abide in the society of saints.
Reflecting over the ambrosial and immaculate Name, the soul is illumined.
The pain of birth and death is removed and the fear of Yama is ended, O dear.
They alone are blessed with His vision, O Nanak, who are pleasing to their Lord.
O my lofty, Peerless and Endless Lord, who can know Thine virtues?
They who sing Thine excellences are saved, saved are they who hear them and all their sins are effaced.
O Lord, Thou savest the beasts, goblins and the fools and ferriest Thou across even the stones.
Slave Nanak, seeks Thy refuge, O Lord and is ever, ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Forsake thou the insipid water of sin, O my mate and quaff thou the supreme Nectar of the Lord's Name.
Without tasting the Name Nectar, all have been drowned and their soul becomes not happy.
Thou hast no honour, glory and might, so be thou the handmaiden of the saints.
Nanak they, whom the Lord makes His own, look graceful at His court.
The optical illusion, deer's craze and shade of a tree, have misled man's mind, O my comrade.
O mate, the mercurial mammon goes not with the man, and ultimately leaves him,
enjoying pleasures and fornicating with the supremely beautiful damsels, in their company none ever obtains peace.
Says Nanak, blest, blest O mate are the Lord's saintly men, who contemplate the Name
O my very fortunate mate, to merge in thy Lord, go thou to abide with the saints.
Neither pain, nor hunger nor disease afflicts man there and he comes to enshrine love for the Lord's lotus feet.
There is no birth and death nor coming and going there and one enters the Lords eternal sanctuary.
By remembering One God, man's love sunders, not, nor the worldly love afflicts Him.
Casting His glance of grace the Beloved has pierced my soul and I am now easily imbued with His love.
Meeting with my love, my couch is embellished and I now sing His praise with gladness and glee.
My friends and companions, I am imbued with my Lord's love and the desire of my mind and body is fulfilled.
Nanak, the wondrous soul has blended with the wondrous Lord and that state can in no way be narrated.
Rag Bilawal 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The entire universe is the manifestation of One God.
The Lord Himself is the trade and Himself is the Trader.
Some rare one is blessed with such an understanding,
wheresoever I go, thither I see Him. Pause.
The Unqualitative Lord of one form assumes many forms in the qualitative state.
He Himself is the water and Himself the waves.
He Himself is the temple and himself the worship.
Himself He is the worshipper and Himself the idol.
The Lord Himself is the science of union and Himself the way of union.
Ever detached is the Lord of Nanak,
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Himself the Lord creates and Himself He supports.
Himself the Lord makes men do the deeds and takes not blame on Himself.
He Himself is the instruction and Himself the Instructor.
He Himself is the splendour and Himself the Endurer there of. Pause.
Himself He is Mute and Himself the utterer.
Himself is He Undeceivable and cannot be deceived.
Himself is He unmanifest and Himself Manifest.
Himself He pervades all the hearts and Himself remains detached.
He Himself is Absolute and Himself is He with the World.
Says Nanak, all are the beggars of the Lord.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
One who shows the Lord's path to the erring mortal;
such a Guru is found by the greatest good fortunate.
O my soul, contemplate and utter thou the Lord's Name.
The Guru's loved feet are enshrined within my mind. Pause.
My mind is engrossed in lust, wrath, avarice and worldly attachments.
Snapping my bonds the Guru has emancipated me.
Enduring weal and woe, the mortal comes and goes again and again.
The Guru's lotus feet bless him with peace.
In the ocean of fire, the world is being drowned.
Holding me by the arm the True Guru has saved me, O Nanak.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
My body, soul and all the riches, surrender I, unto my Lord.
What is the wisdom, by which I may meditate on My Lord Master?
Cherishing a hope, I have come to beg of the Lord,
beholding Thee, my yard (mind) is embellished. Pause.
Adopting myriad of ways, I greatly reflect on the Lord,
and emancipate this soul of mine in the society of the saints.
I have no intellect, wisdom, sense and cleverness.
If Thou, O Lord, leadest me on to Thyself then alone can I meet with Thee.
One whos eyes are satiated by seeing the Lord's vision,
profitable is the advent of him, says Nanak.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Mother, father, son and wealth go not with the mortal.
In the galaxy of saints, all the afflictions are effaced.
The Lord Himself is contained amongst all.
Uttering the Lord's Name with the tongue, pain overtakes not the mortal. Pause.
He, who is involved in the great fire of thirst and hunger,
becomes cool, by uttering the Lord God's praise.
Contentment is attained not by millions of efforts,
but the soul is satiated by singing the Lord's praises.
O my Lord, the Inner-knower, bless thou me with Thine devotional service.
This alone is the prayer of Nanak, O Master.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
By great good fortune the perfect Guru is attained to.
Meeting with the saints, contemplate thou the Lord's Name.
My Transcendent Lord's Master, I seek Thy refuge.
Dwelling upon the Guru's feet, my sins are effaced. Pause.
All other rituals are but worldly affairs,
meeting with the saints' congregation, man is saved.
Though man may reflect on the Simirtis, the Shashtras and the Vedas,
but he is emancipated only be recitation of the Name.
O Lord, show mercy unto slave Nanak,
that being blessed with the dust of the feet of the saints he may be emancipated.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
I have reflected over the Guru's hymns in my mind
and all my desires and hopes are fulfilled.
The Lord has illumined the face of the pious persons,
and has mercifully blessed them with His Name. Pause.
Holding them by the hand, the Lord pulls His saints out of the blind well,
and their victory is renowned in the world.
The Lord exalts the low and fills the empty.
I am blessed with the great elixir of the immortalising Name.
My soul and body are rendered immaculate, the water of sins has disappeared,
and the Lord is pleased with me, says Nanak.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
O my friend, all thine desires shall be fulfilled,
by fixing thy attention on the Lord's lotus feet.
I am a sacrifice unto him, who meditates on his Lord.
Singing the Lord God's praise, the fire is quenched. Pause.
In the galaxy of the saints, love for the Lord is enshrined.
By the great good luck, man's life becomes fruitful.
One attains wisdom, honour, wealth, peace and celestial bliss,
by not forgetting God, the Supreme joy, even for a moment.
For the Lord's sight my mind very thirsty.
Says Nanak, O God, I seek nothing but Thy protection.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
I am virtueless, O Lord, devoid of all virtues.
showing Thine benediction, Thou hast made me Thy own.
My soul and body look beauteous with God, the Cherisher of the World.
Showing His mercy, the Lord has come into my home. Pause.
The Lord is the shield of His saints and the Destroyer of dread.
I have now ferried across the world ocean.
To purify the sinners is the faith of the Lord, say the Vedas.
He, the Transcendent Lord. I have seen with eyes.
Through the society of the saints, the Primal Lord becomes manifest.
All the aliments of slave Nanak are allayed.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
O Lord, who can know the worth of Thy service?
The Master is imperishable, Invisible and inscrutable.
Innumerable are the excellences of the Profound and Unfathomable Lord.
The highest of the high is the mansion of my Lord Master.
The Remotest of the remote, Thou art O my Lord. Pause.
Without the One Lord there is not another.
Thou alone knowest Thy worship, O Lord.
By Himself, man can do nothing, O brother.
He alone whom the Lord blesses with the Name, receives it.
Says Nanak the Man, who is pleasing to the Lord;
he alone attains Lord, the Treasure of virtues.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Giving His hand, the Lord protected Thee in thy mother's womb.
Forsaking God's elixir, now thou tasteth the Fruit of poison.
Meditate thou on the World-Lord and shed all other entanglements.
When Death's courier comes and kills thee, O fool, then shall thy body crumble and be in bad plight. Pause.
Considering thy own, Thou preservest thine body, mind and riches,
and contemplate not on Thy Creator even for a trice.
Thou hast fallen in the blind well of the great worldly love.
Because of the veil of wealth, thou hast forgotten the Supreme Lord.
Through the greatest good fortune, the Lord's praise is sung.
In the society of saints, Nanak has attained to his Lord.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Lord is my mother, father, son, kinsman and brother.
The Transcendent Lord is the succourer of Nanak.
I am endowed with peace, poise and good many pleasures.
Perfect is the Guru and perfect is his word. Manifold are his merits, which can be enumerated not. Pause.
All the arrangements the Lord Himself makes.
By remembering the Lord, all the desires are realised.
The Lord is the Giver of wealth, righteousness, success and salvation.
Remembering and contemplating the Creator, I am wholly fulfilled.
In the guild of the saints Nanak has enjoyed the Lord's love,
and has reached his Home through the Perfect Guru.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
In the Perfect Bright Guru are contained all the treasures. Pause.
The man lives only if he contemplates the Lord God's Name.
An apostate person dies and is distressed.
The Lord's Name has become my protector.
The wretched mammon-worshipper talks but nonsense.
Through calumny and slander good many have been ruined.
Their neck, head and feet are loaded with death's noose.
Says Nanak, the saints who contemplate the Name,
the death's myrmidon draws not near them.
Rag Bilawal 5th Guru Dupadas
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
By what good fortune can I meet my Lord?
Every moment and instant, ever remember I the Lord.
Ever contemplate I, the Lord's lotus feet.
What is the wisdom, by which I may attain to my Beloved?. Pause.
Show unto me such a favour, O my Lord God,
that Nanak may forget Thee not at any time.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
In my mind, I ponder on the Lord's lotus feet.
My diseases are dispelled and I have obtained all the comforts.
The Guru has stilled my pain and blessed me with the gift of the Lord's Name.
Profitable has become my advent and adaptable my life. Pause.
Ineffable is the Lord's discourse and ambrosial is his World.
Says Nanak, the divine lives by meditating on the Lord.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Guru, the Perfect True Guru, has blessed me with peace.
Joy has welled up and the bugles of joy incessantly play. Pause.
My sufferings, sins and afflictions are dispelled.
Meditating on the Lord, all my vices have hastened away.
Meeting together, O the beauteous brides, make ye merry,
Guru Nanak has saved my honour.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Intoxicated with the love of kindreds worldly attachments, fraud and ego and bound by bondage, man looks very hideous.
Committing sins, the mortal's age goes on diminishing day by day and he is entrapped in the death's net and noose.
My Master, merciful to the meek, I have entered Thine asylum.
With the dust of the Saints feet, I have crossed the awfully arduous and exceedingly big world-ocean. Pause.
O my Peace-Giving and Omnipotent Lord Master, my soul, body and wealth all are
Thine. O Thou ever Merciful Lord Master of Nanak, mercifully snap Thou my bonds of doubt.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Supreme Lord has diffused bliss all round and has fulfilled His creed.
The Lord has become merciful to the holy men and all my Kindreds are happy.
Himself, the True Guru has adjusted mine affair.
The Lord has blessed Hargobind with long life and taken care of my comfort, happiness and wellbeing. Pause.
The forests, vegetation and the three worlds have grown green and the Lord has given support to all the sentient beings.
Nanak has obtained his heart desired fruits and his desires are wholly fulfilled.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
One unto whom the Lord becomes merciful,
he passes his time contemplating the Lord. Pause.
Remember thou the Lord in the society of saints.
Singing the Lord's praise, death's noose is cut.
The Lord himself is the True Guru and Himself the Sustainer.
Nanak asks for the dust of the feet of the saints.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Irrigate thou thy mind with the Lord God's Name.
Night and day chant thou the praises and glories of God.
O my soul, enshrine thou such an affection for the Lord,
that throughout the eight watches of the day he may seem just close to thee.
Says Nanak, he who has an immaculate destiny,
his soul is attached to the Lord's feet.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The ailment is past, the Lord Himself has cured it;
I sleep in peace and pleasure and poise have entered my home. Pause.
Eat to your fill and repletion O my brethren,
contemplate ye in your mind the ambrosial Name of the Lord.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the perfect Guru,
who has preserved the honour of His own Name.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The True Guru has made my heart and home permanent. Pause.
He who slanders these homes, he is pre-destined by the Creator to be destroyed.
Serf Nanak has sought the protection of Him, whose order is unfailing and infinite.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Sufferings and distresses are all over and the diseases are dispelled.
The Transcendent Lord has for given thee, Enjoy thou now the saints' joys. Pause.
All the comforts well up in thy association and healthful are thine mind and body.
Ever chant thou the glories of the Lord, This alone is the efficacious medicine.
Come and abide thou in thy home and native land, Auspicious are these days.
Nanak, the Lord is mightily pleased with thee and all thy separations are ended.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The embroglios of mammon go not along with any one.
According to the idea of saints, even the Lords of throne and crown arise and depart empty handed. Pause.
Pride goes before a fall. This is the primal principle.
They, who are involved in terrible sins transmigrate in many existences.
The saints utter the true words and ever contemplate the Lord, the Worlds Sustainer.
Remembering and contemplating God. O Nanak, the saints ferry across and are imbued crimson in His love.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Perfect Guru has blessed me with profound trance, pleasure and peace.
The Lord is ever my succourer and comrade and I reflect over His ambrosial virtues. Pause.
Ovations of triumph hail me in the world and all the beings loud for me.
The Divine True Guru is greatly pleased with me and no obstacle befalls me.
He, whose side the Merciful Master takes, everyone becomes an attendant of him.
For ever and ever, O Nanak, the glories vest in the Guru.
Rag Bilawal 5th Guru Chaupadas.
There is but One God, by the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The Lord has made this perishable world realms, like the house of sand.
Like the paper, drenched with water, it takes no time to be destroyed.
Hear me, O man, behold and consider the True Lord in they mind.
The adepts, strivers, house holders and Yogis have departed abandoning their homes. Pause.
As is the night's dream, so is this transient world.
All that comes to view shall perish. Why attach thyself to It, O fool?
Where are thy brothers and friends? Open thine eyes and see.
Some have gone and some shall go everyone in his turns.
They, who serve the Perfect True Guru's they remain ever stable at God's door.
Servant Nanak is the Serf of God, O Lord the Enemy of ego, Save Thou his honour.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
I care not (throw that into the fire) about praise by the people.
I utter those words, by which my Beloved may come and meet me.
When the Sire Master becomes merciful, then apply I myself, to His service.
My soul is clinging to the worldly desires. Meeting with the Guru, I have shed them all. Pause.
Very greatly implore I my Love and offer this soul of mine unto Him.
For a moment's union with my love, I sacrifice all other riches.
Through the Guru, I am rid of the society of the five sins, as also of hate and love.
Within my illumined mind the Lord has become manifest and night and day I keep awake.
She alone seeks the Lord's refuge as His true bride who has good fortune recorded on her forehead.
Says Nanak, like this, she attains to her Spouse and her body and soul are pacified.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
He, who is exceedingly fortunate is dyed with Beloved's love.
This day goes not dirty ever, nor sustains it any stain.
He attains to his peace-giving Lord and automatically meets with Him.
The Lord sinks into his soul and then he can leave Him not. Pause.
Old age and death can touch him not and he suffers not agony again.
Quaffing the Lord's Nectar he is sated and the Guru makes him eternal.
He alone, who tastes the invaluable Name of God, knows its relish.
Its worth can be evaluated not. What shall I say and utter with my mouth?
Fruitful is Thine sight, O supreme Lord and treasure of virtues is Thy Gurbani.
Bless me with the dust of Thy slave's feet, O Lord. A sacrifice unto Thee, am I says Nanak.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
My Master, mercifully keep me under Thy protection,
I know not how to perform Thine service, as I am a groveling fool.
I take pride on Thee, O my darling Beloved.
I am a sinner and ever perpetrate mistakes. Thou art ever the Pardoner of mine. Pause.
I commit numberless sins every day and Though art the beneficent Lord of me, The virtueless one.
Forsaking Thee, O Lord, I associate with mammon, Thy handmaiden, Such are my deeds.
In Thine mercy, Thou blesseth me with everything, while I am an ungrateful fellow.
I am attached with Thine gifts and contemplate not on Thee, O my Master.
O The Remover of birth and death, without Thee, is not another.
Says Nanak, I have entered thy sanctuary, O merciful Guru. Deliver, thou me the unwise one.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Blame thou not any one and meditate on Thy Lord.
O my soul, hymn thou His praise, by serving whom great bliss is obtained.
O my beloved, without Thee, whom should I ask for forgiveness?
Thou art my Compassionate Lord. to me are all the demerits. Pause.
As Thou keepst me, so do I Live. There is no other way out.
You are the only support of the supportless. Thy Name alone is my sustenance.
He, who accepts as good that, what Thou doest, is emancipated.
The entire creation belong to Thee, and all are subject to Thy administration.
If it please Thee, O Lord, I shall wash Thine feet and serve Thee.
Be Thou compassionate, O merciful Master, that Nanak may ever hymns Thy praise.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Death laughs over man's head, but the beast understands it not.
Involved in strifes, pleasures and pride, the thinks not of death.
Serve thy True Guru, Why wander, O luckless mortal?
Seeing the beauteous saf-flower, why makest thou the mistake of attaching thyself to it?. Pause.
Constantly committing sings, thou hast amassed wealth for expending.
Thy dust shall mix with dust and thou shalt depart naked.
They for whom thou toilest, they are at variance and have enmity with thee.
At the last hour, they shall flee from thee. Why thou burn yourself for them, O wrathful man?
He alone becomes the dust of the feet of the Lord's slave, On whose brow such destiny is writ.
Says Nanak, In the sanctuary of the True Guru, the mortal is released from hi bonds.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The cripple crosses over the mountain, the block head becomes a man,
and sees the three worlds, by meeting with the pure Guru.
Hear ye the glory of the society of the saints, O my friends.
The filth is washed away. millions of sins are dispelled and the soul becomes pure. Pause.
Such is the devotional service of the World-Lord, that an ant overpowers an elephant.
Whomsoever the Lord makes His own, He blesses him with the gift of fearlessness.
For him a lion becomes a cat and a mountain appears to be the blade of grass.
They, who toiled for half a shell, are accounted very wealthy.
What praises of Thine can utter I of Thou of endless excellences?
O Nanak, mercifully bless me with thine Name, I am bereft of Thy vision.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The mortal ever remains engrossed in pride, strife, greed and the tongue's relishes.
From the beginning, he is involved in deception, guile, house-hold and false sins.
By perfect Guru's grace, mine eyes have seen like this,
that without the Name, dominions, property, riches and youth are all vain. Pause.
Beauteous thing, otto, perfume clothes and victuals,
meeting with the body of the great sinner become foul-smelling.
Rambling and roaming, one becomes a man and short-lived is this body of his.
Losing this opportunity, he wanders through many existences.
Meeting the Guru, by Lord's grace, the mortal contemplates the Lord God, and enters the wonderous state.
He is blessed with peace, poise and bliss and bears the exquisite celestial strain.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The saints feet are the ship, wherein the world ocean is crossed.
The Guru puts man on the Lord's path in wilderness and reveals to him the Lord's mystery.
God, God, God, God, God, God, God, God for God, O man, enshrine thou love.
Standing sitting and sleeping, remember thou thy Lord God the Creator. Pause.
The five thieves take to their heels, when the mortal repairs to the society of saints.
His capital remains whole, he earns good profit and goes to his house with honour.
Immovable becomes his seat, his anxiety is ended, and he wavers not.
His doubt and misgiving are shattered and he ever sees the Lord.
Thou art the fortitudinous Lord of virtues and merits. How many excellences of thine should I narrate?
In thy galaxy of the saints, Nanak has obtained the Nectar of God's Name.
Bilawal, 5th Guru.
Vain is the life, that is led without the association of saints.
Meeting with their society all the doubts are dispelled and I am emancipated.
The day, when I meet with the saints; unto that day I am a sacrifice.
Again and again sacrifice I, my body, mind and soul unto them. Pause.
This ego, Guru has made me shed and this much humbleness. ha has implanted in me.
This mind has become the dust of all men's feet and my self conceit is stilled.
The idea of slander and ill of others, these I have burnt in an instant.
I see very near the Lord of kindness and compassion, he is not far.
My body and soul are cooled down and I have now found deliverance from the world.
The Lord's vision is Nanak's love, soul, life, wealth and everything.
Bilawal, 5th Guru.
I perform service for Thy slave, O Lord, and wipe his feet with my hair.
I surrender my head to him and hear from him the praises of the Home of Bliss.
On meeting Thee, my soul revives, so meet me Thou, O Merciful Master.
Contemplating the compassionate Lord, night and day my mind enjoys bliss. Pause.
Thine saints, O Lord, are the saviours of the World, are the saviours myself to their skirt
My Master, bless me with gift of the dust of thine saint feet.
I have no skill and wisdom, nor have I any service to my credit.
Preserve me Thou from doubt, death and worldly attachment and cut away my death's noose, O my Lord.
I, implore Thee, O Lord of mercy my Father, do Thou cherish me.
O my Lord, the Home of bliss sing I thine praises in the society of the saints.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
What Thou wisheth to do, that Thou doest O Lord, Without Thee there is naught else.
Seeing Thy glory, the death's minister leaves the mortal and slips away, O Lord.
By Thy grace, O Lord, the mortal is emancipated and. His ego is stilled.
The Omnipotent Lord, the Possessor of all might is met through the Perfect bright Guru. Pause.
Searching and searching I have found that without the Name, all else is false.
All the comforts of life are obtained in the society of saints, The Lord is the fulfiller of desires.
To whatever Thou attachest me, to that I am attached, I have burnt all my cleverness.
O my Master, merciful to the meek, thou art fully pervading everywhere.
Everything I beg of Thee the very lucky ones obtain what they seek from Thee, O Lord.
This is the supplication of Nanak, "O Lord, I live by singing Thine praises".
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Abiding in the society of saints, all the sins hasten away.
If man is imbued with the Lord's love, then he is cast not into the womb.
Uttering the Name of the Lord of the world, man's tongue becomes pure.
By uttering the Guru's word, soul and body are rendered immaculate. Pause.
Man is satiated tasting the Lord's elixir and receiving this elixir his soul blooms.
His intellect is illumined and renowned, and turning away from the world, his heart-lotus blossoms forth.
He is cool calm, and content and all his thirst is quenched.
His mind's wandering in ten directions ends and he abides in the immaculate place.
The Saviour saves him and his doubts are burnt to ashes.
Nanak is blessed with the Name treasure and seeing the saints' sight, he is peace.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Carry water for, wave over and grind corn for the Lord's slave and then shalt thou be happy.
Burn thou in fire Thy dominions, property and over-lordship.
The servant of the holy men; repair thou to his feet.
The wealthy men and the Lords of umbrella and throne; abandon and forsake thou them. Pause.
The dry dread of the saints, that is equal to all the treasures.
Thirty-six sorts of dishes in the house of the mammon-worshipper; they are like poison.
Wearing the Old blanket of the pious persons, the mortal becomes not naked.
He loses his honour by putting on the silken raiment of the mammon-worshipper.
The friendship contracted with an infidel is dissolved half-way.
Who-so-ever serves God's slave is emancipate here and here after.
Everything has emanated from Thee O Lord, Thou Thyself hast created the creation.
Blessed with the saints' vision Nanak sings God's praise.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
With mine ears I hear the Lord God's Name and with my tongue I sing the Lord's praise.
Placing my hands and head on the feet of the saints, I contemplate the Lord's Name.
My compassionate Lord show mercy unto me that I may be blessed with this wealth and success.
Obtaining the dust of the saints feet, I apply it to my forehead. Pause.
Becoming lowliest of the lowly and very humble I imploringly address the Saints.
Stilling my ego, I shampoo their feet and merge in the saints' congregation.
With every breath, I remember my Lord and go not to another's door ever.
Obtaining the accredited vision of the Guru, shed I my self-conceit and worldly love.
I embellish myself with truthfulness contentment, compassion and piety.
Fruitful has become my married life, O Nanak, by becoming pleasing to my Lord.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
That the words of pious persons are immutable is apparent to all.
The man who associates with the saints guild, him God, the King, meets.
This faith in the World-Lord and comfort are obtained by contemplating the Lord.
Every one has been talking various things, but the Guru has brought the Lord into my mind's home. Pause.
There is no doubt that the Lord preserves the honour of him, who seeks His shelter.
In the field of actions, sow thou the Lord's Name, since this opportunity is difficult to obtain again.
The Lord Himself is the knower of heart, He does everything and causes everything to be done.
The daily function of the Lord is that He purifies many sinners.
Be thou not led astray, O mortal by the illusion of worldly valuables.
Nanak, the Lord saves the honour of him, whom he approves.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
He who has made thee from clay, has fashioned thy invaluable body,
and has screened many sins in thy mind and by whose grace thou lookest immaculate;
why forget that Lord from your mind who has given you all this.
For asking the Lord he who unites with another, he mixes with dust. Pause.
With every breath, meditate, meditate thou on thy Lord, and never make any delay.
Renouncing the worldly affairs and forsaking the false loves, be thou merged in the Lord.
He, who being One as also many, has set on foot various plays; such Lord is and shall also be.
Receiving instruction from the Guru, serve thou that supreme Lord.
Highest of the high, illustrious and the companion of all, the Lord is said to be.
O Lord, make Nanak the slave of the slave of Thine slaves.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The World-Lord is my sole support. I have relinquished other hopes.
Lord, the Perfect Treasure of virtues is powerful over all.
The Name is the prop of the Lord's slave who has sought His refuge.
In their heart, the saints have the support of the Supreme Lord. Pause.
The Lord Himself preserves, He Himself bestows and He Himself cherishes.
Lord, the merciful to the meek and the treasure of compassion protects us at every breath.
What the Creator is doing, in that is our advantage.
The Perfect Guru has instructed me that peace is in the acceptance of the Master's Will.
Dismissing care, anxiety and calculations the Lord's slave, recognises the Lord's Order.
Nanak in imbued with the love of the Lord, who perishes not, nor leaves him.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Meeting with the Guru man's sins flee, his great fire is quenched and he is comforted.
I had fallen into the blind well. Giving his hand the Guru has pulled me out.
he, the Guru is my friend and I am the dust of his feet.
Meeting with whom I am at peace and who blesses me with the gift of spiritual life. Pause.
I have now received what was destined for me since the very beginning.
Abiding with the Lord's saints, mind's aspirations are fulfilled.
My fears of the three worlds are dispelled and I have obtained the place of rest.
The powerful has taken pity on me and the Name has come to abide within my mind.
O Lord, Thou art the refuge of Nanak and he has Thine support alone.
The Omnipotent Lord God is inaccessible, infinite and the Cause of causes.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
He alone is filthy; poor and low, who forgets his Lord.
The unwise understands not the Creator, rather counts himself the doer.
Then alone man is in pain, when he forgets the Lord. Peace wells up when the Lord is remembered.
The saints sing ever the Lord's praise. In this alone lies their bliss. Pause.
The high, the Lord makes low and the low in an instant he establishes aloft.
The worth of the Lord's magnificence can be narrated not.
Seeing the beauteous plays and revelments, dawns the day of departure.
The dream becomes the dream and the mortal's actions go with him.
Thou, O Lord, are Omnipotent to do all the deeds. I seek Thine protection.
Day and night Nanak contemplates God and is ever, ever a sacrifice unto him.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
With this head of mine, I carry water for the saints and with my hand I wash their feet.
Lakhs of times I am devoted unto them and I live by seeing their vision.
All the aspirations which I cherish within my mind; My Lord fulfills them all.
With a broom, sweep I the saints' abode, and wave the fan over them.
The saints utter the ambrosial praise of God, I hear and make my soul quaff it.
With that elixir I am pacified and sated and quench the fire of sin.
When the galaxy of saints worship my Lord, meeting with those saints; I too sing His praise
I make obeisance to the pious persons and apply the dust of their feet to my face.
Sitting and standing I recite Thy Name, this is the only deed I do;
Nanak's prayer is that he may merge in Thy refuge, O my Lord God.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
He alone crosses this world-ocean, who sings the Lord's praises.
He abides with the society of saints and with good fortune obtains the Lord.
Thy slave, O Lord, lives by continually hearing Thy Word, Uttered by the Saint Guru.
The Guru's glory is manifest in all the Worlds and he saves the honour of his serf. Pause.
The Lord has pulled me out of the sea of fire and has slaked my burning.
The Guru has sprinkled the water of the Nectar-Name and has become my helper.
My pain of birth and death is removed and I have secured a place of rest.
My noose of doubt and worldly attachment is snapped and I have become pleasing to my Master.
Everything is in the Lord's hand. Let no one think that there is another.
In the society of saints, Nanak has obtained all the comforts.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Becoming merciful, the Lord has himself snapped my bonds.
The Supreme Lord Master is merciful to the meek. By His gracious glance, I am ecstasies.
The Perfect Guru has shown mercy unto me and has stilled my ailments and ills.
Meditating on the Lord, who is worthy of meditation, my soul and body have been pacified and comforted. Pause.
God's name is the panacea, by virtue of which no malady afflicts the mortal.
In the society of saints, man's soul and body are imbued with the Lord's love and he suffers not pain again.
Seeking the shelter of the saints, my sins are dispelled and I am rendered pure.
He who hears and utters the praise of God's Name; his calamities are warded off.
One who utters and hears praises of the Lord, his afflictions are removed.
Nanak's main message is that O man sing thou the Lord's praise.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Out of the Lord's fear wells up His devotion and one is tranquilised from within.
Contemplating on the Name of World-Lord the mortal's doubt and delusions are dispelled.
He, who meets with the perfect Guru; into his mind comes peace.
Forsake thou thy mind's cleverness and hearken to the Guru's gospel. Pause.
Remember, remember, remember thou that Beneficent Lord of thine.
That Infinite Lord, I forget not ever within my mind.
I have come to enshrine affection for the lotus-feet of the wondrous Bright Guru.
He, to whom Thou showest mercy, O Lord, him Thou yokest to Thy service.
I have quaffed the Name-Nectar, the treasure of wealth and my soul and body are happy.
Nanak forgets not ever the Lord of supreme bliss.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
My desire is stilled, my egoism is gone, and my dread and doubt have hastened away.
I have acquired stability and enjoy peace. The Guru has done me a great good.
Contemplating on the Perfect Guru, my anguish is ended.
My body and soul are all cooled and I have obtained peace, O brother. Pause.
Contemplating the Lord I was awakened from slumber and beholding him I was wonder struck.
Quaffing the Name-Nectar, I am sated, O wonderous is the relish thereof.
I myself am emancipated, swim across my comrades and my lineage and family are also saved.
Fruitful is the bright Guru's service, which has rendered me pure in the Lord's court.
I am low, patronless, ignorant virtueless and meritless.
The Lord has shown mercy unto Nanak and has made him His Own slave.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
God is the support of His devotees. They have no other place to go to.
Thy Name alone, O my Master, is my power, dominions, kingdom and riches.
Extending His mercy, the Lord has saved His slaves.
The slanderers putrefy in slandering others and death's myrmidon seizes them. Pause.
The Saints meditate on the One Lord and think not of another.
They make supplication before the Unique Lord, who is contained in all the places.
I have heard this old story, uttered by the devotees,
that the Lord cuts into pieces all the wicked and blesses His slaves with honour.
Nanak utters the true words, which are manifest amongst all.
The Lord's serfs who are under the Lord's protection, have absolutely no fear.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Lord who has all the powers in His hand shatters all the shackles.
The Mortal is released not by other deeds. Save me Thou, O my Lord God.
I have entered Thine sanctuary, O my perfectly merciful Lord of wealth.
He, whom Thou preservest, O World-Cherisher, he falls not in the world-snare. Pause.
Hope, doubt, sin and worldly attachment, in these the mortal is engrossed.
The false world abides within his mind and he understands not the Lofty Lord.
O Perfect Lord of supreme light, all the beings belong to Thee.
As Thou keepest me, so do I live, O my Illimitable and Infinite Lord.
O Thou Cause of causes, my Omnipotent Lord, bless Thou me with Thy Name.
Nanak has ferried across, singing the Lord God's praises in the society of saints.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Placing reliance on thee, O my mind, who is it that has not fallen?
Thou art bewitched by the great mammon. This is the way to hell.
O vicious mind, no faith can be placed in thee, Thou art exceedingly inebriated with sin.
The feet-chain of the donkey is removed, only then, when a load is first put on his back. Pause.
Thou destroyest the merit of contemplation, penance and self-mortification, Thou shalt suffer the agony of the Yama's rod.
O shameless buffoon, why thou not remember the Lord? Thou shalt suffer the womb pangs.
God is thy Comrade, Helper and the great Friend, With Him thou art at variance.
Thou art in love with the five high way men. An immense pain shall well up therefrom.
Nanak seek the shelter of the saints, who have overpowered their mind.
He surrenders, his body wealth and everything to the Lord's Slaves.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Making effort to meditate on the essence of peace, bliss wells up.
Remembering and contemplating the Name of the World-Lord, Perfect understanding is gained.
I live by dwelling on the Guru's lotus feet and meditating on the Lord.
Pondering over the Transcendent Lord, I drink the Nectar with my mouth.
All the living beings abide in peace and within the mind of all is the yearning for Thee.
The Guru-beloved ever think of doing good to others. They wish not ill to any.
Blessed is the place and blessed the indwellers, wherein the Lord's name is meditated upon.
Very frequently God's discourse and His praise are done thither and there is nothing but pleasure, poise and peace.
Within my mind, I forget not the Lord ever. He is the Master of the masterless.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the Lord, in whose hand lies everything.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
he, who confined thee in the womb and then releasing thee, put thee into the world of pleasure.
Ever contemplate thou His lotus feet, that thou may be cooled down.
In life and after death, this mammon is of no avail.
He, who has created this creation, rare is the One, who enshrines affections for Him. Pause.
O mortal, the Creator has made summer and winter, and saves thee from heat.
From an ant, He makes an elephant and the separated ones, He unites.
The sources of production from the egg, womb, sweat and earth, all these are the Lord's workmanship.
The practice of the task of the imperishable Lord's meditation is fruitful for all.
I can do naught, O Lord, I have sought Thine saints refuge.
Guru Nanak has pulled me out of the blind well of the intoxication of worldly love.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
In the search, search, search of my Lord, wander I in woods and other places.
Such is my Auspicious Lord, That He is Undeceivable Imperishable and Inscrutable.
When shall I see my Lord with the delight of my soul?
That dream is better that than waking wherein I abide with my Master. Pause.
Hearing the Shashtras on the four castes and the four staged of life my thirst for the Lord's view is sated not
The Imperishable Lord has no form or outline, nor is He made of five elements.
Rare are the saints and great Yogis, who delineate such a form of the Lord.
Blessed, blessed are they, whom the Lord meets in His mercy.
They see the Lord within, they see Him without, and dispelled are their doubts.
Nanak, he whose destiny is perfect, him the Lord meets.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Seeing the Lord's glory, all the sentient beings are highly pleased.
Himself making an effort, My True Guru has paid off my debt.
Inexhaustible is the wealth of the Guru's Word. Inspite of my eating and expending, it lasts to the end.
Perfect is everything, which exhausts not ever. Pause.
In the society of saints, meditate I on the Lord, infinite is whose treasure.
The Lord makes no delay in blessing me with faith, wealth, success and salvation.
The saints contemplate the Lord Master with single-minded affection.
They amass the wealth of the Lord's Name, of which there is no estimation.
My Lord Master, I seek Thy refuge and sing Thine praise. I can find not Thy limit.
O my Infinite World-Lord, I can find not Thy limit.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Remembering and contemplating the Perfect Lord, mine affairs are all arranged.
In the Creator's town, the saints abide with the Creator Lord. Pause.
By praying to the Guru, no obstacle befalls the man.
God, the King is the Saviour of the capital-stock of His saints.
Absolutely no deficiency ever occurs in the Lord's brimful treasures.
The Lord's lotus feet are enshrined within my soul and body. He is Inaccessible and infinite.
They, who perform Lord's service, all abide in peace. They are seen in want of nothing.
By saints' grace, I have met the Master, The Perfect Lord of the universe.
All congratulate me on my victory. Beauteous is the abode of the True Lord.
Obtaining the Perfect Guru, Nanak utter the Lord's Name, the treasure of peace.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Contemplating the Lord Master God, the mortal becomes hale and hearty.
It is the Lord's scepter, with which all the ailments are smothered. Pause.
Deliberating over the Perfect Divine Guru the mortal ever enjoys peace.
I am devoted unto the saints society, by which I have obtained union with my Lord.
Contemplating whom peace is obtained and separation from Him ends.
Nanak has sought the refuge of the Lord, who is Omnipotent to do all the deeds.
Rag Bilawal. 5th Guru Dupadas.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I have abandoned all other efforts and have taken the medicine of the Name alone.
The fever, sin and all the ills are eradicated and my soul is rendered cool.
Dwelling on the Perfect Guru, all my pains are dispelled.
Extending His mercy the Saviour has saved me. Pause.
Seizing me by the arm the Lord has pulled me out of the world's quagmire and has made me His own.
Reflecting and pondering over the Lord Nanak's soul and body are in peace and he has become fearless.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Placing His hand on my forehead, the Lord has established me and has even me the gift of His Name.
He, who performs the fruitful service of the Exalted Lord, to him no loss accrues.
The Lord Himself saves the honour of His saints.
Whatsoever the holy men wish for, that the Lord grants them. Pause.
The Lord's slaves, who seek the refuge of His lotus feet are dear unto Him.
Nanak, they automatically meet with the Lord, and their light merges in the Supreme light
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Lord Himself has given me the support of His lotus feet.
The Lord's slaves, who seek His shelter, they are ever renowned.
The Lord is the Preserver and unequalled. Immaculate is His service.
The Divine Guru has made the city of Ramdas, God's empire. Pause.
Ever, ever remember thou thy God, thus no obstacle shall befall thee.
Nanak, by praising the Name, the fear of enemies flees away.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Joining the society of saints, remember thou thy Lord with thy soul and body.
Uttering the excellences and praises of the world-cherisher death's courier runs away from after.
The man, who night and day utters the Lord's Name ever remains wakeful.
Charm and spell affect him not. nor an evil eye does him any harm. Pause.
By Lord's love his lust, wrath, intoxication of ego and worldly attachments are dispelled
He, who enters the Lord's asylum, O Nanak, remains merged in the bliss of the Nectar of His love.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The creatures and their designs are in the Lord's power. What He orders, verily that do they.
When Lord, the king is pleased, there is no need to fear.
No pain shall ever effect thee, O mortal, by meditating on the Transcendent Lord.
The Death's Minister draws not near the Guru's beloved Sikhs. Pause.
All-powerful is the cause of causes, without Him there is not another.
Nanak has entered the Lord's sanctuary and the True Ones power is his mind's support.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Reflecting and pondering over my Lord, the abode of anguish is removed.
Meeting with the saints' guild I have found peace and from there I shall wander no more.
I am a sacrifice unto his feet.
Seeing the Guru, I sing the Lord's praise and am blessed with pleasure, peace and bliss. Pause.
To utter Lord's discourse and praise and to hear the resounding of His Melodious music, this has become the aim of my life.
Nanak, the Lord is highly pleased with me and I have obtained my heart-desired fruits.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
This is the prayer, of Thine attendant, "O Supreme Lord, illumine Thou my mind".
By Thine grace, all my sins shall be effaced.
I have the support of the lotus feet of the Omnipotent Lord, the Treasure of virtues.
I shall continue to recite the praise of Thy Name, so long as there is breath in my body. Pause.
Thou art my mother, father and kinsman and Thou abidest amongst all.
Nanak has sought the protection of the, immaculate is whose praise.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Singing God's praise, the mortal obtains all the perfections and every one wishes him well.
With their mouth, all address him as a saint, a saint and hearing of him, the Lord's slaves come to meet him.
The Perfect Guru, blesses him with peace, poise, salvation and bliss.
All the beings become compassionate to him and he ever contemplates to him and he ever contemplates the Lord Master's Name. Pause.
Our Lord, the ocean of excellences is fully contained amongst all.
Nanak, seeing the sedateness of the Lord, His devotees abide in bliss.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Becoming merciful, my Beneficent Lord has attended to my prayer.
The Lord has saved His slaved His slave and put ashes into the mouth of the slanderer.
O man, my friend, none can stalk thee now, for thou art the slave of the Guru.
By giving His hand, the Transcendent Lord has saved thee. Pause.
The One Lord is the Giver of all the Beings, There is not any other second.
Prays Nanak, "O Lord, Thou alone art my intimates and friends".
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Lord of the universe has saved my intimates and friends.
The slanderers have died, be thou carefree therefore. Pause.
The Lord has fulfilled all my desires and I have met the Guru-God.
In this world praise be to the Lord, fruitful is whose service. Lofty, Infinite and
Immeasurable is the Lord, in whose hand are all the beings.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the Lord, who is with him everywhere.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
I have contemplated the Perfect "Guru and he has become merciful unto me".
The saint has shown me the way and the death's noose is cut for me.
Singing the praise of the Lord's Name, my pain, hunger and doubt have departed.
I am blessed with poise, peace, pleasure and comforts and mine affairs are all arranged. Pause.
The fire is quenched. I have become cool and the Lord Himself has saved me.
Nanak has sought the refuge of the Lord, great is whose glory.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The body-field is beautified, the mind-site is blessed, affairs are adjusted,
fear flees and doubt is dispelled; by ever meditating on the Lord.
Abiding with the saintly persons, the mortal rests in peace and poise.
Auspicious is the time when the Lord's Name is meditated upon. Pause.
Renowned become they in the world, whose Name no one knew before.
Nanak has sought the protection of Him, who is Knower of all the hearts.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Lord Himself has eradicated the disease and peace and tranquility have ensued.
God has blessed me with the gift of great glory and wondrous form.
My Guru-God has shown mercy and has saved my brother.
I am under the protection of Him, who is ever a Helper of mine. Pause.
The prayer of God's slave goes not vain ever.
Nanak has the strength of the Perfect Lord who is the Treasure of excellences.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
They who forget God, the Giver of life, repeatedly die and are reborn.
The Supreme Lord's slave serves Him, and night and day remains imbued with His love.
Possess I, immense peace, poise and pleasure, and my hope is realised.
I have obtained peace in the guild of the saints by contemplating on God, the Treasure of virtues. Pause.
O Lord, hear Thou the prayer of Thy slave, Thou art the knower of hearts.
The Master of Nanak, is contained in all the places and inter-spaces.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Not even the hot wind touches him, who is under the protection of the Supreme Lord.
On my four sides is the Lord's circle, so pain afflicts me not, O brother.
I have met the Perfect Guru, who has made the make.
He has given me the medicine of the Lord's Name and I have enshrined love for the One Lord. Pause.
That Preserver has preserved me and cured all my maladies.
Says Nanak, the Lord has extended His mercy to me and has become my Succourer.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Bright Guru has himself preserved his children. He himself is the Transcendent Lord.
I am blessed with comfort, peace and celestial bliss, My service has been accepted. Pause.
The Lord Himself has heard the supplication of the saintly persons.
Dispelling the diseases, the Lord, great is whose glory, has given me life.
Manifesting His might, the Lord has forgiven mine sins.
The Lord has blessed me with the fruit of my mind's desire Nanak is a sacrifice unto Him.
Rag Bilawal 5th Guru Chaupadas and Dupadas
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
My Fascinating Lord makes me not hear the following with my ears:
An apostate's singing of obscene songs and melodious tunes and the utterance of useless words. Pause.
I serve, serve, serve and serve Thine saints and ever do this deed.
The Beneficent Lord has blessed me with the gift of fearlessness, and meeting the society of the saints I sing God's praise.
My tongue is imbued with the praise of the Unapprehensible and unfathomable Lord and mine eyes are absorbed in the love of His vision.
O the Dispeller of the sorrow of the meek, be Thou merciful to me, that I may enshrine Thine feet in my mind.
The earth is beneath all man's feet and from beneath it overtops them, when they are dead. My Lord, make me realise this noble aspects of the earth.
Since the time the True Guru, has implanted in me, within myself his instruction, I have shed, shed, shed my evil habit of taking pride.
Immeasurable is my Merciful Master and He can be weighed not, He is the lover of His saints.
Who-so-ever enters the sanctuary of Guru Nanak, is blessed with the gift of fearlessness and peace.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
My sire Master, Thou art support of my life.
I make obeisance and prostration to Thee and many a time am a sacrifice unto Thee. Pause.
Standing, sitting, sleeping and waking, this soul contemplates Thee, O Lord.
Weal, woe and the state of this mind, narrate I before Thee.
O Lord, Thou art my shelter, Thou art my power, intellect and riches and Thou art my family.
Whatever Thou doest, that deem I good. Seeing Thine lotus feet, peace wells up in me.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
I hear that the Lord is the Saviour of one and all.
Intoxicated in worldly love and the society of the sinners, the mortal, in his mind, has mind, has forgotten such Lord. Pause.
He has amassed poison and firmly grasped it, The Name Nectar he has cast out of his mind,
He is imbued with lust, wrath avarice and slander, and has abandoned truth and contentment.
Pull me out of these, O my Lord, growing weary, I have entered Thy sanctuary.
Nanak prays to Thee, "O Lord, save Thou me, the pauper, through the society of the saints".
Bilawal 5th Guru.
From the saints, I hear the Lord's discourse.
The jubilant bliss of Divine gospel and praise is perfectly echoing there day and night. Pause.
In His mercy, the Lord has made them His own and has blessed them with the gift of His
Name Singing the Lord's praises through out the eight watches of the day, lust and wrath flee from this body.
Seeing the sight of the Lord I am sated and satiated and partake of the immortalising food of God's elixir.
O Lord, Nanak has sought the protection of Thine lotus feet. In Thy mercy unite him with the saints' congregation.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Lord has Himself saved His slave.
The Lord Master has mercifully blessed me with His Name and my agonies and anguishes are all annihilated. Pause.
O God's people, sing ye all, the World-Lord praise and with your tongue utter the priceless melody of the Lord.
Your desires of millions of births shall be stilled of births shall be stilled and your soul shalt be satiated with the Lord's elixir.
I have grasped the feet and the refuge of God, the peace-Giver, and by Guru's instruction meditate on the Lord's Name.
Says Nanak, through the Lord's glory, I have crossed the world-ocean and my doubt and dread are dispelled.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Guru-Creator has rid me of my fever.
I am a sacrifice unto my rue Guru, who has preserved the honour of the whole world. Pause.
Placing his hand on the forehead, the Guru has saved the child.
The Lord has blessed me with the great elixir of His Immortalising Name.
The Merciful Master saves the honour of His serf.
Whatever Guru Nanak utters, that is approved in the Lord's court.
Rag Bilawal 5th Guru Chaupadas Dupadas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The True Guru's Word is the light of the lamp.
With that the darkness of the body-mansion is dispelled and the beauteous cabin of jewels is opened unto me. Pause.
When I saw within, I was astonished and astounded. Its glory I can narrate not.
I am enraptured and inebriated with that sight and am clung to it like warp and woof.
No worldly involvements and bonds affect me and not even an iota of haughty-intellect is left within me.
O Lord, Thou art the highest of the high. Between me and Thee no curtain is stretched, I am Thine and Thou art mine.
The One Unique Lord has made the world, The One Lord is Illimitable and Infinite.
The One Lord is extended in the creation, the One Lord is fully contained everywhere and the One Lord is the support of life.
The most immaculate of the immaculate, the purest of the pure, stainless and the Truest of the true He is.
Says Nanak, there is no end to the Lord's limit. Ever infinite and the Highest of the high is He.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Without God, nothing is of any avail to Thee.
That with which thou art hand and glove and attached, that enticer mammon is beguiling thee. Pause.
Leaving gold, thy bride and beauteous couch thou shalt depart in a moment.
Thou art entangled in sin, art lured by the relish of the sex organs and eatest the poisonous herb.
Thou hast built and beautified the mansion of straw and beneath it thou burnest fire.
What gainest thou, O stiff-necked, obstinate man by sitting puffed up in such a castle?
The five demons stand over thy head and seizing thee by thy hair, are goading thee on.
Being blind and ignorant, thou see them not and intoxicated with ego keepest sleeping on.
The net is spread, the bait is scattered and thou art being ensnared like a bird.
Says Nanak, in order to have my bonds severed, I now contemplate over my all-powerful True Guru.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Infinite and Invaluable is the Lord Master's Name.
Beloved of my life, the Name is the support of soul. As the betel-eater remembers the betel, so I remember the Name in my mind. Pause.
Instructed by the Guru, I have merged in celestial bliss and my body bodice is imbued with the Lord's love.
When good fortune dawned, I was ushered into my Love's presence, My Spouse is Eternal and wobbles not ever.
To adore the Lord, I need no image, no incense, no perfume, nor lamp, like warp and woof, He is blooming in all my limbs.
Says Nanak, my Spouse has enjoyed me, His chaste bride and exceedingly beauteous has become my couch.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Uttering the Lord's Name, I have become the Lord's incarnate myself.
From the time I have met the compassionate saints, since then my evil-intellect is shunted off. Pause.
The Perfect Lord is fully filling all, He, the Lord is Cool, Quiet and Compassionate.
Lust, wrath, desire and self conceit, have all been effaced from my body.
To practise truth, contentment, compassion, faith and purity; this instruction I have received from the saints.
Says Nanak, he who realises the Lord in his mind, by him is possessed the entire under standing.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
What am I poor mortal? I can describe not even an hair an hair of Thine.
My infinite Lord, Brahma, Shiva, adepts, silent sages and Indra know not Thine state.
What should I say, I can say not anything.
Wherever I see, I find Him pervading there. Pause.
Where the most terrible tortures are heard to be inflicted by the Yama, there, Thou alone O my Lord, art the succourer.
I have sought God's protection and am attached to His feet. This understanding the Lord has imparted unto Guru Nanak.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
O Inaccessible, Beauteous and Imperishable Creator, the Purifier of sinners, make me Thou meditate on Thee, even for a moment.
My wondrous Lord I have heard that Thou art obtained by meeting with the saints and fixing the mind on their feet, the holy feet.
By what way and what discipline of life is my Lord obtained?
O good man tell me by what means is my Lord contemplated?. Pause.
If a man serves another man he (the latter) too works for and stands by him.
O Lord, the Ocean of Peace, Nanak seeks Thine protection and refuge and has support of Thy Name alone
Bilawal 5th Guru.
I seek the saints shelter and serve I the saints.
I am now rid of all the affairs, bonds, entanglements and other occupations. Pause.
Peace, poise, great bliss and the Lord's Name, I have obtained from the Guru.
Such is the Lord's elixir, that I can narrate it not. The Perfect Guru has turned me away form the world.
Fascinating Lord I see with everyone, None is devoid of Him He is fully filling all.
My Perfect Lord, the Ocean of mercy is contained everywhere. Realising Him as such I am wholly fulfilled, says Nanak.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
What does my mind say and what can I say?
My Lord Master, Thou art wise and All-knower, What can I say before Thee?. Pause.
Thou, O Lord, knowest unuttered whatsoever is in the minds.
O man, what for and how long shalt thou beguile others, when the Lord is with thee to hear and see everything?
Realising like this that there is not any other Doer, my mind has become happy.
Says Nanak, the Guru has become merciful unto me and my love for the Lord shall never wear off.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Thus, crumbles down the slanderer.
O brother, hear thou this distinctive mark of his, that he falls like the wall of saltpetre. Pause.
When the slanderer sees demerit in some one, then is he pleased. On seeing merit he is filled with grief.
All day long, he thinks of another's evil, but it happens not, The evil man dies cherishing and meditating evil.
The slanderer forgets the Lord, his death draws near him and he raises a quarrel with the Lord's slave.
The Lord Master Himself is the savior of Nanak, What can the wretched man do unto Him?
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Why strayest thou thus?
Thou do evil deeds and make others do evil and then you deny it. Thy God is with thee always and is watching and hears all. Pause.
Thou purchasest glass, rejectest gold, bearest love with the enemy and abandonest the True Friend.
The Lord, that is, seems bitter and mammon, that is not seems sweet to thee. Engrossed in evil, thou are burnt down.
The mortal has fallen into the blind well and is entangled in the darkness of doubt and the bonds of worldly love.
Says Nanak, when the Lord becomes merciful, man meets with the Guru, who taking him by the arm pulls him out.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
With my soul, body and tongue, deliberate I over my God.
Bliss has welled up, my anxieties are dispelled and the Guru has blessed me with all peace. Pause.
All my ignorance is transformed into wisdom. My Lord is All-wise and Omniscient.
Giving His hand, the Lord saves His slave and no one can do him any harm.
I am a sacrifice unto the saints' sight, by whose grace, I contemplate on the Lord's Name.
Says Nanak, my faith is only in Master and within my mind I believe not in any other even for a moment.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Perfect Guru has preserved my honour.
The Nectar-Name, he has enshrined in my mind and my filth of many births is washed off. Pause.
Contemplating the Perfect Guru's word, the demons and wicked enemies are banished.
What can any poor man do unto me, as great is the glory of my Lord.
Remembering, remembering, remembering the Lord and enshrining. His lotus feet within my mind, I have procured peace.
Slave Nanak has entered the sanctuary of Him, higher than whom there is none.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Ever, ever contemplate thou the Lord's Name.
No affliction of old age and death shall overtake thee and thine affairs in the Lord's court hereafter shall be adjusted. Pause.
Stilling thy self-conceit, ever seek thou the Guru's shelter. This Treasure of bliss is obtained from the Guru.
With the Name, the noose of birth and death is snapped and it is the pass-word of the True Court.
Whatever Thou doest, that I accept as have stilled my entire ego.
Says Nanak, I am under the protection of Him, who has created the whole universe.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
One, within whose mind and body is the Lord,
sings the Lord's praise, ever does good to others and invaluable is his tongue. Pause.
All his generations are emancipated in an instant and his filth of many births is washed off.
Remembering, remembering his Lord Master, he passes through the forest of poison with bliss.
I have obtained the ship of the Lord's feet; embarking whereon I have crossed the hideous world ocean.
Nanak's soul is attached to the Lord, to whom belong His saints slaves and devotees.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Seeing Thine wondrous plays I have grown fortitudinous.
Thou art my Lord and the Knower of hearts, and Thou abidest with the saints. Pause.
In instant, the Lord establishes and glorifies. From a low worm, He makes man a King.
Within my mind may, I not ever forget Thee, O my Master. Slave Nanak prays for this boon alone.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The imperishable Lord is worthy of adoration.
Dedicating my soul and body, I place them before God, who is the Cherisher of all the beings. Pause.
The Peace-giving Ineffable Lord is worthy of affording protection. He is the ocean of mercy and supremely compassionate.
Hugging him to His bosom, the Lord saves His slave, Him then even the hot wind brushes not.
My Merciful Master Lord is the wealth, property and everything of His saints.
Beggar Nanak prays for the vision of the Lord and wishes to be blessed with the dust of the saints' feet.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Million of efforts are included in the meditation of the Lord's Name.
If man meets the society of the saints and sings the Lord's praise, then the couriers of death are scared away. Pause.
To enshrine the Lord's feet in the mind and body, in this is contained the doing of all the deeds of atonement.
My coming going, doubt and dread have fled and my sins of many births are burnt off.
Becoming fearless, meditate thou on the Lord of the universe. This is the wealth, which is obtained by the greatest good luck.
O Perfect and Beneficent Lord, show Thou mercy unto slave Nanak, that he may utter Thy immaculate praise.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
The Lord has saved me from Sulhi.
Sulhi succeeded not in his design and he died an ignominious death. Pause.
Lifting up an axe, the Master chopped off his head, and in an instant he was reduced to dust.
Thinking and planning evil, he was destroyed. He who has created him also gave him the push.
Nothing of his sons, friends and wealth remains. He has departed leaving behind all the brothers and kinsmen.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto that Lord who has fulfilled His slave's word.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Perfect is their service of my Perfect Guru.
In the beginning, middle and end the Lord alone is the Master of all His creation He Himself has created.
The Lord does everything by Himself, The Divine Guru has set aright mine affairs. Pause.
He Himself saves the honour of His slaves. Great is the glory of my Lord.
The Supreme Lord Master, under whose sway are all the sentient beings, is Himself the True Guru.
Nanak seeks the protection of the Lord's Lotus feet and utters he the immaculate spell of His Name.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
From sufferings and sins, the Lord Himself protects me.
Repairing to the Guru's feet and contemplating the Lord's Name within my mind, I am tranquilised. Pause.
Showing His benediction, the Lord has shielded me with His hands. He glory is manifest in the nine continents and He is the Emancipator of the World.
My affliction is past, my desire is quenched, peace and pleasure have entered my mind and my soul and body are all sated.
The Lord is the Master of the masterless and potent to give refuge. He is the Father and Mother of entire creation.
He is the Lover of devotional service and the Destroyer of dread, Nanak sings and utters his Lord's praise.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Recognise thou Him, O man, from whom thou hast sprung.
Contemplating the Transcendent Lord Master, I have procured pleasure, peace and salvation. Pause.
By great good luck, I have met the Perfect Wise and Omniscient Guru, the inner-knower.
Deeming His won, the Lord save me by giving His hand, He is supremely powerful and the honour of the dishonoured.
My doubt and dread are dispelled in an instant and within my dark mind the Divine light has dawned.
With every breath, Nanak meditates on the Lord and is ever, ever, a sacrifice unto Him.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
In both the places, here and hereafter the chivalrous Guru protects me.
The Exalted Lord has embellished my this world and the next one, and all mine affairs are adjusted. Pause.
Deliberating over the Lord God's Name, man enjoys celestial bliss and bathes in the dust of the saints' feet.
His comings and goings cease, obtains he stability and his lamentations of many births are ended.
He swims across the ocean of doubt and dread, his fear of death is past and he sees the one Lord fully filling all the hearts.
Nanak has entered the asylum of the Destroyer of sorrow and beholds His presence, both within and without.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Seeing the Lord's vision all the ills hasten away.
O my Master, be Thou not ever out of my sight and abide Thou with my soul. Pause.
My Loved Lord, the support of my life,
my Lord, the Knower of hearts, pervadest all.
What virtues of Thine, O Lord should I cherish and remember?
With every breath, I contemplate Thee, O Lord.
O Lord, the ocean of mercy and compassionate to the poor,
cherishest Thou all Thine creatures.
O Lord, Thy servant, utters Thy Name all day long,
Thou thyself hast infused in Nanak Thy love.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Body, wealth and youth pass away.
Thou meditatest not on the Lord's Name and the day downs on thee while committing sins at night. Pause.
By continually eating various kinds of victuals, thy mouth's teeth crumble, decay and drop out.
Thou art beguiled while practising egoism and committing sins. Thou takest not pity on others.
The great sins are the terrible ocean of trouble. In them the mortal is engrossed.
Nanak has sought the shelter of his Lord Master and taking him by the arm, God has extricated him.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
I have pondered over my Lord.
Mine adversaries and villains are grown weary of prating and I have attained bliss. O my brother and friend. Pause.
My affliction is past, all the calamities are warded off and the Creator has hugged me to His bosom.
Enshrining the garland of my Beloved's Name within my heart and mind I am blest with immense calmness, peace and bliss.
My soul, body and wealth are thy capital, O my Master, Thou art my Omnipotent Lord.
O Lord, Thou art the saviour of Thy servant. Serf Nanak is ever a slave of Thine.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Meditating on the World-Lord, I am emancipated.
Contemplating the Omniscient Lord, the Knower of hearts, my sufferings are dispelled and true peace has welled up. Pause.
He to whom the beings belong makes them happy, The Lord is the true might of His saints.
God saves the honour of His slave. He takes great pride on his Creator, the Destroyer of dread.
I have developed friendship with all, my enmity is eliminated and the Lord has sorted away the villains and demons.
Nanak is blest with immense peace, poise and pleasure and he lives by uttering God's praise.
Bilawal, 5th Guru.
The Transcendent Lord Master has become Merciful.
The True Guru has arranged all mine affairs and meeting the saints. I have contemplated, contemplated the Lord and have become happy. Pause.
My Lord has taken my side and all my adversaries have been reduced to dust.
His slaves, the Lord keeps hugged to His bosom and attaching to His skirt He saves them.
Safe and sound, we have together returned home and the slanderer's face is blackened.
Says Nanak, Perfect is my True Guru and by the Guru-God's grace, I have been mightily pleased.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
I have contracted love with my Beloved. Pause.
The Lord of wealth has drawn me with such a string, that by breaking, it breaks not, and by letting it go, it goes not.
Day and night the Lord abides within my mind. My Master shower Thou thine benediction on me.
I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto my black, beauteous Lord, whose ineffable discourse and story have I heard.
Slave Nanak is said to be the slave of the Lord's slaves. O my Master, shower Thou Thine benediction on me.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Meditate I on the Lord's feet and am a sacrifice unto them.
My Guru is himself the Supreme Lord Master, Within my mind and heart, embrace I His contemplation. Pause.
Remember, remember, remember thou the Peace-giving Lord, who created the whole world.
With thy tongue, utter thou the Name of one Lord, and obtain honour in the True Court.
He alone, who meets the society of saints obtains this treasure.
O Lord, Mercifully bless Thou Nanak with this gift, that he may ever sing Thine excellences and praise.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Seeking the shelter of the True Guru, I am saved.
My victory is acclaimed in the world, My Exalted Lord is the ship to cross over the world ocean. Pause.
The Perfect Lord is the Filler of universe and the Giver of peace. He cherishes and fulfils the entire creation.
The Lord is contained within all the places and inter-spaces, Unto he God's feet, I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice.
The designs of the beings are in Thy power, O my Lord, Thou possesset all the supernatural powers and art the Cause of causes.
From the beginning and the commencement of ages, the Lord has been saving the honour of His saints, contemplating on the Lord, O Nanak, the man gets rid of fear.
Rag Bilawal. 5th Guru Dupadas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I am nothing, everything is Thine, O Lord.
Here Thou art the Absolute Lord and there the Related One. betwixt the two, Thou playest Thy play, O my Lord. Pause.
Thou Thyself art within the city and Thyself without it as well Thou, O my Lord, abidest everywhere.
Thou Thyself art the King and Thyself the subject. At one place Thou art the Lord and at another the slave.
From whom should I hide and with whom should I practise fraud? Wheresoever I see there I see the Lord just near me.
I have met with Guru Nanak, the saints embodiment. When the water drop merges with the ocean, its separateness can be discerned not.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Thou, O Lord, art potent to do all the deeds.
Hide Thou my faults, O my Guru-God I a sinner, have sought the refuge of Thine feet. Pause.
Whatever the man does, that Thou watchest and knowest, O Lord. The Shameless man sees no way to deny.
Great is Thy glory, I have heard, O Lord. Thy Name destroys millions of sins.
My nature is ever, ever to err and Thy faith is to save the sinners, O Lord.
My merciful Master, the embodiment of kindness and the Treasure of compassion, Thine vision has blessed me with immortal status.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
My Lord, show Thou such mercy unto me,
that my fore-head be on the saints feet, mine eyes be set upon their vision and on my body may fall the dust of their feet. Pause.
The Guru's word should abide within my mind, and the Lord's Name, I clasp to my heart.
My Lord, dispel Thou the five thieves and cast, like incense, all my doubts into fire.
Whatever Thou doest, all that deem I good, I have driven away my desire and duality.
Thou alone art the Beneficent Lord of Nanak, O Master. Uniting me with the congregation of saints, do Thou emancipate me.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Such an advice seek I from Thine slaves, O Lord,
that I may embrace Thine meditation and love, serve Thee and obtain Thy association. Pause.
I serve the Lord's slaves, the Lord slaves I discourse with and with his slaves cherish I intimacy.
My face and brow, I besmear with the dust of the saints feet and my hopes and various waves of desires are fulfilled.
The saints belong to the Transcendent Lord, whose praise is immaculate,
The feet of the saints are equal to millions of holies like the Ganges.
Nanak has taken bath in the dust of the feet of the saints and his sins of many births have been washed away.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
As it pleases Thee, so cherish Thou me, O Lord.
Thou art my Supreme Lord Master and the True Guru. I am Thy child and Thou art my compassionate Father. Pause.
I am virtueless and have absolutely no virtue. I can comprehend not Thy doing.
Thine state and measure, Thou alone knowest. My soul, body and wealth are all Thine.
Thou art my Omnipresent Lord, the knower of hearts. Thou knowest my circumstances unuttered.
Says Nanak, O sire Lord, bless me with Thy eye of grace, that my body and soul be tranquilised.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
O Lord, keep me Thou ever with Thee.
Thou art my soul-captivating Beloved. Without Thee my life is all vain. Pause.
From a pauper, Thou makest a King in a trice, Thou, O my Lord, art the Patron of the patronless.
Thy slaves, Thou makest Thy own, and savest them from the burning fire, Giving Thy hand Thou protectest them.
Meditating on God, all my troubles are ended, I have obtained coolness and peace and my soul is satiated.
God's service, O Nanak, is the treasure of riches, fruitless are all other clevernesses.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
O Lord, forget Thou not ever Thine slave.
O my Lord God, the Master of the universe, hug me to Thy bosom and think Thou of my primal love. Pause.
If is Thy daily practice to purify the sinners, O Lord keep Thou not my errors in Thy mind.
O God, Thou art my life, soul, wealth and peace. In Thy mercy, burn Thou my curtain of self-conceit.
How can the fish live without water? Without milk how can the child do?
Slave Nanak, thirsts for the Lord's lotus feet and seeing His vision, he obtains all comforts.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Both here and hereafter, there is bliss for me.
The Prefect Guru has perfectly and wholly saved my honour and the Transcendent Lord Master has shown mercy unto me. Pause.
God, my love is pervading my soul, and body and all my sufferings and body and all my sufferings and pains are dispelled.
With peace, poise the pleasure, I sing the Lord's praises and my adversaries and villains are all destroyed.
The Lord has considered not my merits and demerits and has mercifully made me His won.
Unweighable is the greatness of the Immovable and imperishable Lord. Nanak acclaims the Lord's victories.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Without the Lord's fear and devotional service, how can one cross the world-ocean?
O Lord, the saviour of sinners, show mercy unto me and keep me under Thy patronage. Pause.
Men embraces not Lord's meditation, wanders about inebriated with ego and is engrossed in enormities like a dog.
Committing sins and being badly cheated his life is passing away and like this he sinks down.
My Immaculate Lord, the Destroyer of distress, I have entered Thine sanctuary, Unite me Thou with the guild of saints, so that I may repeat Thy Name.
O the Beauteously haired Lord the Destroyer of pain and the Dispeller of pain and the Dispeller of sins, Nanak lives only by seeing Thine vision.
Rag Bilawal. 5th Guru Dupadas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Of Himself, the Lord has blended me with Himself.
From the time I have entered Thy asylum, since then my sins have hastened away. Pause.
Shedding my pride and other anxieties, I have sought the saints' protection.
Remembering, remembering Thy Name, O my Beloved, the maladies are eradicated from my body.
The utterly foolish, ignorant and unwise persons, the Lord has mercifully saved.
Says Nanak I have met the Perfect Guru and my comings and goings have ended.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
I live by hearing Thy Name, O Lord.
When the Perfect Guru is mightily pleased with me, then is my hope realised. Pause.
My pain is past, my mind is comforted and the melody of bliss has bewitched me.
Within me has welled up yearning to meet my Beloved Lord, I can live not without Him even for an instant.
Thou, O Lord, hast saved many devotees and saints and meditate on Thee millions of silent sages.
Nanak has attained to the Lord of innumerable virtues, who is the prop of the blind and riches of the poor.
Rag Bilawal.5th Guru. Partal.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my Enticer, I sleep not and continue sighing, I am, adorned with necklaces, garments, ornaments and collyrium in my eyes.
How eager I am, eager, I am eager that
when will my Love come home?. Pause.
I seek the refuge of the chaste brides, and place my head on their feet.
O chaste brides, unit me with my Love,
when will He visit my Home?
Listen thou, O mate, Tell me the tale (way) to meet my Beloved. Still thou thy entire self-conceit then shalt thou find thy love within thy home.
Then shall thou delightfully sing the songs of joy and praise.
Meditate thou on God, the Embodiment of bliss.
When Nanak came to the Lord's door,
then did he attain to his Beloved.
The Enchanter has shown me His vision,
now the sleep seems so sweet to me.
My thirst is entirely quenched.
Now I am absorbed in celestial beatitude.
Sweet is the tale of my Spouse.
I have attained to my Beloved, the charmer. 2nd. Pause.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
Having the Lord's vision, my ego is dispelled.
I am absorbed in thy Lord, Helper of saints, I have now grasped my God's feet. Pause.
My soul longs for Him and loves not another. As the black-bee is attached with the honey of the lotus, similarly my soul is hand and glove with the feet, feet of the Lord.
It desires not any other relish, but seeks the One Lord alone.
Breaking off from another, the mortal is released from the clutches of Death's courier.
Turning away from the world, O man, quaff thou the Lord's Nectar in the society of saints.
There is not, is not another without the Lord, O mortal.
So love thou the feet, feet of the Lord, says Nanak.
Rag Bilawal 9th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Realise thou that the Lord's Name is the Remover of pain.
Remembering whom Ajamal and courtesan were emancipated, know thou this in thy mind. Pause.
The elephant fear departed in an instant, as soon as he uttered the Lord's Name.
Listening to Narad's instruction, the child Dhru got absorbed in meditation.
He obtained the immovable, immortal and fearless rank at which the world was amazed.
Says Nanak God is the saviour of His saints. Believe thou Him to be near thee.
Bilawal 9th Guru.
Without God's Name thou shalt suffer pain.
Without meditation, doubt is dispelled not. The Guru reveals this secret. Pause.
Of what avail are the pilgrimages and fasting, if man enters not the Lord's sanctuary?
Be assured that fruitless are his Yogic practices and sacrificial feasts, who forgets the Lord's praise.
He who playing aside both his self conceit and worldly love sings the praise of the Lord,
Says Nanak, the mortal of such a type is said to have obtained emancipation whilst alive.
Bilawal 9th Guru.
He, within whom, there is not the Lord's meditation,
that man loses his life in vain. Bear thou this in thy mind. Pause.
He, who bathes at shrines and keeps fasts, but who has not control over his mind.
Be assured that of no avail is his faith to him, I utter nothing but the water penetrates into it not;
So deem thou that mortal, who is without the Lord's devotional service.
In the Darkage, salvation is obtained through the Lord's Name.
In the Darkage, salvation is obtained through the Lord's Name. The Guru discloses this secret.
Says Nanak, he alone is the great man, who sings the Lord's praises.
Bilawal Ashtapadis. 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By The True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
The Lord abides near, and He beholds all,
some rare one under-stands this by Guru's grace.
Without imbibing the Lord's fear, His worship can not be performed.
Imbued with the Name, eternal peace is procured.
Such is the wealth of the Lord's gnosis and Name,
that obtaining it, the Guru-wards enjoy the relish of this Nectar. Pause.
Everyone talks of Divine knowledge and Divine knowledge.
Talking and talking one enters into controversies and suffers pain.
No one can help arguing and talking of the Lord's knowledge.
Without being imbued with the Name-Nectar, emancipation can be obtained not.
The Lord's knowledge and meditation are all obtained from the Guru.
Through the true mode of life, He, the True Lord, abides within the mind.
The perverse person preaches piety, but himself practises it not.
Forgetting the Name, man obtains no place of rest.
Mammon has bound the man to the snare of the world's pool.
Amongst all the hearts this net is spread with the bait of sin.
Whosoever is come, he is seen under the sway of death.
Contemplate thou the Lord in thy mind and thy affair shall be adjusted.
He alone is the divine, who enshrines affection for the Name.
The willful man loses his honour in ego.
The Creator Himself yokes man to His service.
To the Guru-ward, He Himself blesses with glory.
The night of life is dark and immaculate is the light of the Lord's Name.
Without the Name, false, filthy and untouchable are the mortals.
The Vedas preach the sermon of the Lord's devotional service.
He who continually hears and believes, sees the Lord's light.
The Shastras and Simirtis impress the Name's meditation.
Doing sublime deed by the Guru's grace, man abides in peace.
The way-ward person suffers pangs in existences.
Enshrining the Unique Lord's Name, in the mind, the shackles are shattered.
To believe in the Name is to obtain true honour and adoration.
Whom else should I see, when there is not another except the Lord.
Seeing all, say I that He, the Lord alone is pleasing to my mind.
Says Nanak, without the Lord, there is not another.
Bilawal 1st Guru.
Man carries out the dictates of his mind.
This mind feeds on virtue and vice.
Inebriated with the pride of wealth, the mortal is satiated not.
He to whose soul the True Lord is pleasing, attains to satiation and salvation.
Seeing his body, wealth, wife and all his property, the mortal becomes proud.
Without the Lord's Name, nothing goes along with man. Pause.
Man enjoys dainties, sexual pleasures, and revelments of his mind's liking.
Ultimately his wealth passes on to other persons and his body becomes a heap of ashes.
This entire extension of dust, mingles with dust in the end.
Without the Name, filth is removed not.
Without the Name false are the various songs, melodies and rhythmic beats.
The mortals of three dispositions, come, go and remain far form the Lord.
Being engrossed in duality, the pain of evil-intellect departs not.
The Guru-ward is released by taking the cure-all of the singing Lord's praise.
Some one may wear a neat clean loin-cloth, anoint his brow with the sacrificial mark and put on rosary on his neck,
but if he has wrath within him, he reads as one acts in a theatre.
Forgetting the Name, man drinks the wine of worldly valuables.
Without the adoration of the Guru, bliss is obtained not.
One is a swine, a dog, a donkey a cat,
a beast, a filthy one, a mean man, and a pariah,
who turns away his face from the Guru. He is made to wander in existences.
Bound with the bonds, he continues coming and going.
By Guru's service, man procures the Name-wealth.
With the Name in his mind he is ever benefited.
He is not called to account in the True Court.
He who obeys the Lord's command, is approved at His door.
When man meets with the True Guru, then knows he the Lord.
Realising the Lord's will, he walks according to the will.
Recognising the will, he abides in the True court.
With the Lord's Name, death and birth are effaced.
Knowing that everything belongs to Him, the mortal should remain detached.
He ought to dedicate his body and soul to Him of whom they are.
Then he comes not, nor goes he.
Being true, O Nanak, he merges in the True Lord.
Bilawal 3rd Guru Ashatpadi.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The man is like a crow, who utters the gnosis with his mouth beak.
Within him is greed, falsehood and pride.
Without the Name, the gilding shall wear off, O fool.
Serving the True Guru, the Name is enshrined in the mind and heart.
Meeting with the Guru, God's Name is contemplated. Without the Name, false are other loves. Pause.
O man, do thou the work, which the Guru enjoins upon thee.
Meditating on the Name, thou shalt come into the Home of bliss.
Through the True Name, thou shalt be blessed with glory.
He, who understands not himself, but instructs people,
is mentally blind and does blind deeds.
How can he obtain an abode in the Lord's court, home and mansion?
Let us serve the Venerable Lord, the Inner-knower,
whose light is diffused in all the hearts.
How can hiding avail with Him?
The True Name is realised through the True Gurbani.
The Lord Himself meets him who stills his ego.
The Guru-ward ever, ever utters the Name.
Serving the True Guru, duality and evil understanding are eradicated,
demerits are effaced and sinful mind is cleansed.
Man's body sparkles like gold and his light merges in the Supreme Light.
Meeting with the True Guru, the mortal is blessed with great glory.
The Guru rids him of his pain and enshrines the Name in his mind.
Imbued with the Name, he ever attains peace.
Following the Guru's instruction, immaculate becomes the man's way of life.
Believing in the Guru's instruction, the door of salvation is obtained.
Believing in the Guru's instruction the door of salvation is obtained. Nanak, they who act on the Guru's counsel, are saved with their family.
Bilawal 4th Guru Ashtpadis.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
He, who effaces his self and eradicates his ego, Night and day sings the songs of the Lord's love.
The body of him, who is sated by Guru's grace, becomes pure like gold and his light merges in the Supreme light of the Fear-Free. Lord.
I have the support of the Name of the Omnipresent Lord God,
Even for a moment and a trice I can live not without the Name and by Guru's grace read I the Lord God's discourse. Pause.
There is one body-house, which has ten doors, the five thieves and burglars, day and night break into it.
They steal the entire wealth of righteousness, but the blind apostate knows it not.
The body-fortress is brimful with gold and gems, When Divine wisdom awakens into it, man comes to enshrine love for reality.
The thieves and snatchers are hid in the body. By means of Guru's hymns, he arrests and binds them down.
The Lord God's Name is the boat and ship and the Guru's word the boatman, through whom the mortal crosses the world-ocean.
Death's courier, the tax-gatherer, comes not near the Guru's slave and no burglar or thief thieves.
Day and night I ever sing God's virtues. Uttering the Lord's praises, I find not His limit.
By Guru's grace, the mind comes into its one Home and then it meets with the World Cherisher, with the beat of drum.
Seeing the Lord's vision with my eyes my soul is sated and with mine ears, hear I the Guru's hymns and instruction.
Continually hearing the Guru's word, the human soul is softened and delighted with the Lord's elixir and utters the Master's Name.
Men of three qualities are engrossed in the love of mammon. It is through the Guru, that man attains to the supreme status.
With the same one eye, he deems all alike and sees the Supreme Lord pervading all.
The light of the Lord's Name is permeating all, The Guru-ward automatically comes to perceive the unperceivable.
God has become merciful unto meek Nanak, who through His living adoration has been absorbed in His Name.
Bilawal 4th Guru.
Contemplate thou the cool water like Name, of the Lord God. One is perfumed with the scent and fragrance of God, the sandal.
Joining the society of saints, I have obtained the supreme status. Meeting with God, I who was like the castor-oil plant and buteafrondosa tree, have become sweetly scented.
O man, remember thou the Lord of the universe, the Master of the world and the Proprietor of creation.
They who seek the Lord's protection; those persons are saved like Prahlad. They are emancipated and merged in the Lord. Pause.
In the entire vegetation, the sandal tree is the most sublime. All that is near the sandal tree becomes fragrant like sandal.
The stiff-necked and false mammon-worshippers are dried up. Their mind's ego separates them far from the Lord.
The Lord creator Himself knows the condition and life's department of everyone, All the arrangements the Lord God Himself makes.
He, whom the True Guru meets is transformed into gold. What ever is pre-ordained, that can be erased not by erasing.
In the ocean of the Guru's instruction, find I the jewel like wealth of the Lord's Name and the treasure of His meditation is opened unto me.
Adoring Guru's feet, faith has welled up in me, Uttering the Lord's praise my hunger for it is appeased not.
Ever, ever on contemplating my Lord, ever contemplating on my Lord, supreme detachedness has welled up in me. I express my love by uttering God's praise love.
Uttering His praise over and over again and every moment and trice, one can find not God's limit. He is the remotest of the remote.
The Shastras, the Vedas and the Puranas proclaim the doing of good deeds and steadfastly performing the six religious rites.
The perverse hypocrites rites. The perverse hypocrites are ruined in doubt. Their boat is heavily Loaded with sins and sinks in the tides of avarice contemplate.
Thou the Name and through the Name be blessed with emancipation. The Simirtis and Shashtras impress the Name's meditation.
If man stills his ego and by Guru's grace imbibes Lord's love, then he becomes pure and obtains the supreme status.
O Lord, this world, with all the colours and forms, is Thine. To what-so-ever Thou attachest men, those deeds do they do.
Nanak, the mortals are the instruments in the Lord's hands and play as He makes them play. As He wills, that path tread on they.
Bilawal 4th Guru.
By Guru's grace, I meditate on the Unapproachable and Unapprehensible God. I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto my True Guru, the embodiment of the True Lord.
He has enshrined the Lord's Name within my vital breath. Meeting with the True Guru, I am absorbed in the Lord's Name.
God's Name is the only support of His slaves.
I shall continue to abide under the True Guru's protection, By Guru's grace, I shall attain to the Lord's Court. Pause.
This body is the field to sow the seed of deeds. By churning and toiling, the pious persons gather essence.
The invaluable jewel of the Name becomes manifest and it pours into their vessel of love.
The person, who has become the Lord's own servant; Be thou the slave of the slave of his slave.
Dedicating my soul and intellect, I place them before the Guru. By Guru's grace I utter the Unutterable One.
The way-ward are engrossed in the love of worldly valuables. Their soul is thirsty and burns in desire.
By Guru's instruction I have received the ambrosial water of the Lord's Name and my fire is quenched. The Transcendent Name has quenched it.
This soul of mine dances before the True Guru and within me resounds the Tune of the celestial music of the Name.
Placing, placing my feet with the beating of time, day and night sing I the praise of the Lord Master God.
Imbued with God's love, my soul sings His praise and joyfully utters the Name of the Home of Nectar and bliss.
Within one's own home trickles the supremely immaculate stream, He who drink it attains to peace.
Through his mind's obstinacy, the proud man performs rituals, but these are like house of sand built by a child.
When the waves of the vast ocean dash against it, in an instant, it crumbles into pieces and bits.
God is the pool and God Himself is the ocean, this world is all a play staged by Him.
As the water of the sea waves merges in the sea, so, O Nanak, the omnipresent Lord is all by the Himself.
Bilawal 4th Guru.
My mind wears the rings of the union with True Guru and I apply the ashes of the Guru's instruction to my body.
My being has become eternal in the society of the saints and ended are both my births and deaths.
O my soul!, remain thou ever united with the society of saints.
O God, the Destroyer of Madh demon and the Lord of wealth, show mercy unto me, so that every moment I wash the saints feet. Pause.
Renouncing family life, man becomes a forest-dweller, but his mind remains not at rest, even for a moment.
Then alone the wandering soul returns home, when it seeks the refuge of the Lord God's saints.
Even an anchoret, who abandons his daughters and sons, conceives many desires within his mind.
He entertains desires upon desires and understands not, that by Guru's instruction alone, man is freed from desires and obtains peace.
When detachment from the world wells up in man, he becomes a naked hermit, but his mind roams rambles and flees in ten directions.
He wanders about, but his desire is quenched not. Meeting with the society of the saints he obtains the House of mercy.
The Yogis learn many sitting postures, but their minds long for riches, miraculous powers and sorcery.
Satiation, contentment and peace enter not man's mind By meeting the saints, man is sated and by God's Name, he procures perfection.
Egg-born, foetus-born, sweat-born, earth-born, the mortals and the creatures of all the colours and forms are made by God.
He who takes saints' protection is saved, be he a warrior, a literate, an agriculturist and untouchable and the pariah of the pariahs.
Namdev, Jaidev, Kabir, Tirlochan and Ravidas, tanner of low caste swam across.
Blessed Dhanna Jat, Sain and all those, who joined the society of the pious persons, did meet the Merciful Master.
God the Lover of devotion, protects the honour of the saintly persons and accepts them.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the Lord God, the life of the world and has mercifully emancipated him.
Bilawal 4th Guru.
Within me, thirst for the Lord has welled up and hearing the Guru's word my soul is pierced through with an arrow,
The pain of my mind is known to my kind alone who else can know the pain of another?
The Guru-God, the bewitcher, has bewitched my soul,
Seeing my Guru I am wonder-struck and I have entered the realm of beatitude. Pause.
I go about seeing all the country and foreign lands, as within my mind, there is a great yearning to see my Lord.
Sacrifice I my soul and body unto the Guru, who has shown me the path and way to my God Lord.
If some one brings to me the message of my Lord, unto my mind, heart and body, he seems sweet.
Chopping off my head, I would place it under the feet of him, who makes me meet my God Lord and unites me with His guild.
O my mates, let us go and under stand our Lord and practising the charm of virtues, obtain our Lords Master.
He goes by the Name of the lover of His saints. Let us follow the footstep of those, l who sought the Lord's refuge.
If the bride adorns herself with compassion, my Lord is pleased with her and the lamp of Guru's wisdom is kindles within her mind.
With gladness and glee, My Lord enjoy her, Unto that Lord of Mine, I offer every bit of my body.
The Lord's name, I have made my Necklace and the love-filled mind is the supreme ornament for my head decoration.
For my Lord Master I have spread the bedding of faith. I can abandon not my Lord, as within my mind there is immense affection for Him.
If the Lord says one thing and the bride does quite another, then vain and refuse-like are all her decorations.
The bride bedecks herself to meet with her Spouse, but the chaste brides obtain the Lord and her face is spat at.
I am a hand-maiden of Thine. Thou art the infinite Lord of the universe, I am under Thy sway. What can I of myself do?
O Lord, show Thou mercy unto the meek ones and save them. Nanak has entered into Thine sanctuary, O Guru-God.
Bilawal 4th Guru.
Within my mind and body is the love of the infinite Lord. Every instant immense faith wells up in my mind.
Seeing the Guru, my mind's yearning is fulfilled, as the pied-cuckoo is pacified, when after plaintive cry, the rain.-drop falls into its mouth.
Meet, meet me, O my mates and utter to me the Lord's discourse.
The True Guru has mercifully united me with my Lord. Chopping, chopping off, my head, I offer it to him. Pause.
In every hair, mind and body of mine, is the pang of separation. Without seeing my Lord, I can sleep not.
Seeing me, the physicians and the pulse-feelers are non-plussed. Within my soul, mind and body is the pain of the Lord's love.
Even for an instant and trice, I can live not without my Beloved, as an opium-addict can live not without opium-addict can live not without opium.
They, who feel thirst for the Lord; without God, they love not any other.
Let some one come and unite me with my Lord, I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice and devoted unto him.
When the mortal enters the sanctuary of the True, True, True Guru, then meets he with the Lord after separation of many births.
The same is the couch for the soul and the Spouse and the same is the Lord master of all. An apostate mounts not to his Master's mansion and wanders about.
Uttering "Guru, Guru", If the mortal seeks his refuge, the Lord comes and meets him without a moment's delay.
The mortal performs many rituals, but in his mind he has harboured hypocrisy, evil deeds and covetousness.
A son is born in the house of a prostitute, what can be said to be the Name of his father?
By virtue of the worship done in past lives, I am born human, The Guru has installed in me the Lord, Lord, Lord's meditation.
When I merged in the Lord, Lord, Lord, 's Name, then serving and praising the Lord, I attained to Him.
The Lord Himself brought and powdered the henna-leaves and Himself applied its paste to my body-limbs.
They, to whom the Lord extends His mercy, catching by the arm, He pulls them out of the world-ocean, O Nanak.
Rag Bilawal 5th Guru. Ashatpadi.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
My Master's praise, I can utter not, the praise, I can utter not.
Abandoning all others, I have sought the protection of the Lord. Pause.
Infinite are the Lord's lotus feet.
Unto them, I am ever a sacrifice.
Those lotus, feet, I love within my mind.
Leaving them I go no where else,
God's Name, utter I with my tongue.
The filth of my sins and evil deeds is burnt off.
Embarking on the saints' boat, I am emancipated.
I have ferried across the awful world-ocean.
My soul is tied up with the Lord with the string of love and affection.
This is the immaculate way of the saints.
They forsake sins and evil deeds.
They meet with the formless Lord God.
Seeing my Lord, I have been wonder-struck,
and I taste the perfect relish of beatitude.
I wobble not hither and thither.
God, the Lord Master, abides in my mind.
They dwell not in hell,
who ever remember their Lord, the Treasure of virtue.
They see not the Death's courier with their eyes,
who are fascinated hearing the extremely exquisite Gurbani words.
I have sought the refuge of Valiant God, the Cherisher of the World.
The merciful Master is under the sway of His devoted slaves.
God's mystery, the Vedas know not.
Ever serve Him the silent sages.
The Lord is the Destroyer of the sorrow and suffering of the poor.
Immensely arduous is His service.
His limit no one knows.
He, the Lord is pervading the water, the land and the sky,
Lacs of times, O my soul, make thou obeisance unto they Lord,
having grown weary of wandering, I have now fallen at the Lord's door.
O Lord, make me the dust of the feet of the saints,
Fulfil Thou this desire of Nanak.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
My Lord, rid me thou of birth and death.
Having grown weary, I have fallen at Thy door.
By virtue of the saints society, I have clung to God's feet,
and the Lord's love is sweet unto my mind.
Mercifully attach me to Thy skirt.
Nanak, contemplates Thine Name, O Lord.
The Master of the meek, the Master of the meek, Thou art, O my compassionate Lord.
I crave for the dust of the feet of the saints. Pause.
The world is a well of poison,
in it is the pitch darkness of spiritual ignorance and worldly love.
Hold me by the hand and save me o My Sire Lord.
Bless me with Thine Name, O God.
Without Thee, O Lord, I have no other place,
Nanak is a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto Thee.
The human body is in the grip of covetousness and worldly attachment.
Without the Lord's meditation it is reduced to ashes.
Very dreadful are the Death's myrmidons.
Chitar, Gupat, (the recording angles) know man's deeds.
Day and night they bear witness to the mortal's actions.
Nanak seeks the refuge of God.
O Lord, the enemy of pride and the Destroyer of dread,
mercifully save Thou the sinners.
My sins can not be counted.
Without the Lord, who can then hide them?
I have sought and seized Thy refuge, O Lord.
By giving Thy hand, save Thou Nanak, o Lord.
Treasure of virtue and the Cherisher of the world,
God sustains all the hearts.
My soul thirsts for Thine love and vision,
O Lord of the universe, fulfil Thou this desire of mine.
Without Thee, O Lord, I can live not even for an instant.
By great good fortune Nanak has obtained the Lord.
O Lord, there is naught else but Thee.
My soul loves Thee as the part-ridge does the moon.
As the fish loves the water.
As there is no distinction and difference between the bee and the lotus.
As the shell-duck craves for the sun,
so thirsts Nanak for the Lord's feet.
As the young bride has her life in her husband,
As the gift of wealth is to the greedy person.
As the attachment of water to the milk,
As the very hungry man loves the food.
As the mother loves her son,
So does Nanak ever meditate on God.
As the moth falls on the lamp,
As thief unhesitatingly steals,
As an elephant is entrapped through lust.
As a sinner is caught in sins,
As the gambler's bad habit leaves him not,
So Nanak attaches this mind of his with the Lord.
As the deer loves music,
and as the pied-cuckoo longs for the rain,
so lives the Lord's by Joining the society of saints,
and lovingly remembering the Master of the Universe.
My tongue utter Thy Name, O Lord.
Bless thou Nanak, with the gift of Thine vision.
He who sings, hears and writes the Lord's praise,
he receives all the fruits from the Lord.
he saves all his lineage,
and thus ferries across the world ocean.
God's feet are the boat for him to cross over.
Meeting with the society of saints he sings God's praise.
God, the Enemy of ego saves his honour.
Nanak has sought the protection of the Lord's door.
Bilawal 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The first (Lunar day): The Unique Lord is Peerless, Immortal, Unborn,
and without caste and involvement.
He is Unapproachable and Unapprehensible and has no form or outline.
Searching and searching, I have seen Him in all the hearts.
Devoted am I unto him, who sees and makes others see the Lord.
By Guru's grace I have obtained the Supreme status.
Whose Name should I utter except that of the Lord of the universe?
Through the Guru's instruction, the Lord's Mansion is seen in one's own home. Pause.
Second (lunar day): They, who are yoked to another's love, regret in the end.
They are bound at the Yama's door and continue coming and going.
What have they brought and what have they brought and what shall they take with them?
Over their head is the death's courier head is the death's courier and they suffer the strokes.
Without the Guru's instruction, no one can be released.
By practising hypocrisy, no one can be emancipated.
Accomplishing union of elements, the True Lord Himself has created the creation.
The Lord hast established them apart and shall ultimately destroy them.
The earth and the sky, He has made places for habitation.
He has created the night, day, fear and love.
He who created the creation sees it as well.
Of the universe, there is no other second Creator.
The third (lunar day): The Lord has created Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva,
goddesses, gods, and various other forms.
The number of lights and the kinds can be counted not.
He, who has created them, appraises their worth.
He evaluates them and is fully filling all.
Whom should I call near and whom far from the Lord?
The fourth (lunar day): The Lord created the four Vedas,
the four sources of creation and distinctions in the forms of speech.
He created eighteen (Puranas), six (Shastras) and three (qualities).
He alone understands the Lord, whom He Himself instructs.
He who overcomes the three modes and dwells in the fourth mode,
Prays Nanak, of him I am a slave.
The fifth (lunar day): The mortals of five elements are but demons.
The Lord Himself is Incomprehensible and Detached.
Some are involved in doubt, hunger, worldly love and thirst.
Tasting the Name elixir some remains sated.
Some are imbued with the Lord's love and some die to be reduced to dust.
Some abide in the True Lord's Court and Mansion and see Him ever-present.
The false one has no honour and renown.
The black crow is ever impure.
He is like the bird who is imprisoned in a cage,
and who wanders about behind the bars, but is released not.
Then alone one is emancipated, when the Lord sets him free.
He is attuned to the Guru's instruction and firmly grasps the Lord's meditation.
The sixth (lunar day): The six Shastras the Lord has made.
The lllimitable Word is known to be apart from them.
If the Lord so wills, then summons He the mortal into His presence.
If man pierces his soul with the Word, then obtains he glory.
They who wear religious robes, burn in pride and are ruined.
Through truth Lord, the truthful ones merge in the True Lord.
Septami (seventh lunar day): If man's body blessed with chastity and contentment,
then all the seven seas within him are filled with the immaculate Name water.
One who bathes in good conduct and in his mind reflects on the True Lord,
by Guru's instruction, such a person ferries all across.
One, who has the True Name in his mind and with his mouth lovingly utters the True Name,
is blessed with the passport of truth and meets with no obstruction on the way.
The eighth (Lunar day): One obtains the eight psychic powers,
who chastens his intellect, does the righteous deeds and ponders over the Immaculate Lord.
He who forsakes his optimistic, pessimistic and egoistic qualities;
in his heart abides the pure True Name.
If man remains absorbed in the love of the True Name,
prays Nanak, then death eats him not.
The ninth (lunar day): of the nine great Yogis, the nine regions,
and all the hearts, the Lord's Name is the supreme master.
This whole world is the off-spring of mammon.
My obeisance is unto the Lord, who is my Protector since the very beginning.
The Lord was in the beginning, in the commencement of ages, is now and shall also be
He, the Lord is Infinite and Omnipotent to do everything.
The tenth (lunar day): contemplate thou the Name, share with others and be pure.
Night and day bath thou in the knowledge of the True Lord's excellences.
Filth attaches not to the Truth and through it doubt and dread hasten away.
The flimsy thread takes no time to break.
As is the frail yarn, so know thou the world.
Enjoying the True Lord's love thy mind shall become stable.
The eleven (lunar day): The mortal should enshrine the One Lord in his mind,
and eschew cruel mindedness, egoism and worldly attachment.
He who observes the fasting of knowing him-self, earns the profit.
One, who is engrossed in hypocrisy sees not the quintessence.
The Immaculate Lord is self sustained and detached,
and to that Pure and True One, no filth attaches.
Wherever I see, I see but One Lord there.
Other creatures, He has created of various kinds.
By eating fruits alone, man loses the life's fruit.
Relishing just dainties of various types, one loses the taste of the Lord.
In false covetousness, the mortal is wholly engrossed.
Practising truth by Guru's grace, the mortal is released.
The twelfth (Lunar day): he, whose soul remains detached from twelve signs;
day and night he remains wakeful, and sleeps not ever.
He who is absorbed in the Lord's love, remains ever awake,
and he has faith in the Guru and him death devours not.
They who become detached and slay their five adversaries,
prays Nanak they alone remain merged in the Lord's love.
The twelfth (lunar day): Man should know how to practise compassion and charity,
and ought to bring home his out going mind.
He alone is the faster who observes the fasting of rendering selfless service.
The Mortal ought to embrace unuttered mediation and utter the Name with his mouth.
Knows he the one Lord contained in the three worlds.
Purity and continence are all contained in knowing the True Lord.
The thirteenth (lunar day): The mortal is like a tree on the sea shore.
But immortal can become his root, if his mind remains attached with the string of the Lord's love.
He then no way dies of fear and dread, nor is he ever drowned.
The mortal bereft of fear of the Lord, is drowned to death and loses his honour.
He who enshrines the Lord's fear in his mind and knows His fear within his mind;
sits on the throne and becomes pleasing to the True Lord's mind.
The fourteenth (lunar day): The man who deeply enters into the fourth place (state of mind),
overcomes time and the three qualities of optimism, egotism and pessimism.
Who lets in the sun of wisdom in the moon's house of darkness,
and who knows the worth of the way of union with the Lord;
Who is pervading the fourteen worlds, nether land,
continents and the solar systems; he remains absorbed in the love of that Lord.
The day of no moon: On the night, the moon remains invisible in the sky.
O wiseman, understand and contemplate thou the Lord's Name.
When the moon rises in the sky, its light illumines the three world.
Creating His creation, that creator sees it.
He who sees the Lord, through the Guru; merges he into Him.
The perverse persons are gone astray and continue coming and going.
He, who establishes his hearth and home obtains a permanent seat and looks beauteous.
When man attains to the True Guru, he comes to understand his ownself.
Wherever there is desire, there is destruction and ruination,
and bowel of duality and ruination and bowl of duality and selfishness bursts.
Prays Nanak, of Him I am a slave,
who remains detached amidst the snares of worldly attachments.
Bilawal 3rd Guru. The seven days.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Sunday: He alone is the Primordial Lord,
He Himself is the Doer, there is not another.
Like warp and woof, He has woven Himself in the world.
Whatever the Creator Himself does, that alone happens.
Imbued with the Name one is ever in peace.
By Guru's grace some rare one understands this.
Within my mind, I tell the beads of the rosary of the treasure of virtues.
My God is Unintelligible, Imperceptible and Infinite. I becoming the slave of the Lord's slave, by bowing to the feet of the saints and I meditate on Him. Pause.
Monday: the True Lord is pervading all.
His worth can be told not.
Narrating and describing the Lord, all keep their attention fixed in Him.
The Name falls in the skirt of him, whom the Lord blesses with it.
My Lord is Inaccessible and Incomprehensible and can be perceived not.
By Guru's instruction God is seen pervading all.
Tuesday: The Lord Himself has created love for worldly valuables.
He Himself has yoked all the men to their tasks.
He alone understands Him, whom He Himself instructs.
By Guru's instruction, the mortal comes to comprehend his hearth and home.
Then lovingly performs he the Lord's devotional service,
and burns his ego and egoism with the Name.
Wednesday: The Lord Himself blesses man with sublime understanding.
By Guru's grace, he then does good deeds and meditates on the Name.
Imbued with the Name, his mind becomes pure.
He sings the Lord's praise and washes off his filth of pride.
In the Lord's True Court, he ever obtains glory.
Imbued with the Name, he is embellished with the Guru's Word.
The profit of the Name is obtained through the Guru's door.
Lord, the Giver, Himself blesses man with it.
He, who gives thus; unto Him I am devoted.
By Guru's grace, self-conceit is dispelled.
O Nanak, keep thou the Lord's Name clasped to thy heart.
Unto the Beneficent Lord, I pay my respectful homage.
Thursday: The fifty-two warriors like Hanuman are deluded by doubt.
All the goblins and demons are attached to another.
Himself creating all, the Lord beholds them in their distinctiveness.
O my Creator, everyone has Thine prop.
The mortals and creatures are under thy protection.
He alone meets Thee, whom Thou, O Lord makest to meet.
Friday: My Master is pervading all.
Himself creating all, the Lord appraises the worth of each.
He who turns Guru-wards, he embraces the Lord's meditation.
He does the deeds of truth and continence.
All the fastings, religious rites and daily adorations,
without understanding the Lord, lead man to the love of another.
Saturday: To deliberate over good omens and Shashtras,
in these and in ego and selfhood, the world wanders.
The blind apostate is engrossed in the love of another,
and bound down at death's door bears the blows.
By Guru's grace, man obtains eternal peace.
He does true deeds and bears love to truth.
Very fortunate are they who serve the True Guru.
Stilling their ego, they embrace love for the True Lord;
With Thy love, O Lord, they are easily imbued.
Thou, O Bliss-giving Lord, unitest them with Thyself.
Everything wells up from one God. There is not any other.
Realising Reality, through the Guru, man obtains Divine understanding.
Just as the fifteen lunar days, seven week days,
months & seasons come again and again,
like that the world is in flux day and night.
Coming and going the Creator Lord has ordained.
Exercising His might, the True Lord Himself remains ever stable
Nanak some rare Guru-ward understands this thing by reflecting over the Name.
Bilawal 3rd Guru.
The Primordial Lord Himself creates the creation.
The mortals and lower beings are engrossed in the love of worldly valuables.
Being in love with another, they are attached with the world.
The unfortunate ones die and continue coming and going.
Meeting with the True Guru, True understanding is obtained.
Illusion then breaks and man merges in Truth.
He, on whose forehead good destiny is recorded;
in his mind abides the One Lord. Pause.
Creating the creation, the Lord Himself beholds all.
None can erase Thy writ, O my Lord.
If one calls himself an adept and a striver,
He is deluded by doubt and continues coming and going.
He, who serves the True Guru, that man alone understands the Lord.
If man stills his ego, then alone beholds he the Lord's door.
From the one Lord all others have emanated.
The One God is pervading all. There is not any other.
Renouncing another, if the mortal knows but the One Lord,
he has the pass-word of the Guru's Word with him in God's Court.
If man meets with the True Guru, then attains he to the Unique Lord.
Within him, then, is stilled the love of another.
One whos Master is powerful,
no one can destroy him.
If the Lord's slave remains under His protection,
Lord Himself pardons him and blesses him with glory.
Higher than Him, there is absolutely none.
why should then His slave feel fear and whose fear should he feel?
By Guru's instruction, peace abides in the Body.
Contemplate thou the Name and pain shall overtake thee not,
and thou shall come and go not, nor shalt thou suffer any agony.
Imbued with the Name thou shalt merge in celestial bliss.
Nanak, by Guru's grace, the mortal sees the Lord near.
My Master is ever fully-filling all.
Some are the Lord's slaves and some are gone astray in doubt.
God Himself does and Himself causes everything to be done.
The One Lord dispenses everything and there is not any other.
Man may feel displeasure if there be another.
Serve thou thy True Guru. This alone is the sublime deed.
In the True Lord's Court, they are considered true.
All the lunar days and the week days look beauteous if one contemplates the Name.
If man serves the True Guru, then obtains he the fruit.
All the Lunar and Solar days come and go.
Ever eternal is Guru's Word, through which man merges in the True Lord.
Then alone become fruitful the Lunar and solar days, when the mortal is imbued with Truth
Without the Name, all the false ones wander in existences,
The way-ward die and after death fall into an evil state.
The One Lord they remember not and are lured by another's love.
Owing to the darkness of spiritual ignorance, the human body has grown thoughtless
How can one ferry across without the Name?
The Creator Himself creates the beings.
He Himself reflects over Guru's word.
The sectarians wear many religious garbs.
Like the unsuccessful dice, they wander, wander and wander.
Here and hereafter, they obtain not peace,
the perverse persons die wasting their life away.
He, who serves the True Guru drives out his doubt,
and within his home, he finds the True Lord's mansion.
Whatever the Perfect Lord Himself does, that alone happens.
The omens attached to these Lunar and Solar days create double mindedness and duality.
Without the True Guru, there is pitch darkness.
Only the fools and idiots observe the omens regarding the days, lunar and solar.
Realising God, by Guru's grace, one obtains understanding,
and ever remains merged in the One Name.
Bilawal 1st Guru. Chhant Dakhni.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
My Master, the young bride has come into this world for temporary residence.
Laying aside her vessel of entanglements, she cultivates love for her God Lord.
The herds-woman remains absorbed in her Lord's Love and is automatically embellished with the Name.
Joining her hands she prays to the Guru to unite her with her True Beloved.
Beholding His bride's affections and devotion the Beloved rids her of lust and wrath.
Nanak, seeing her Spouse, the young beauteous bride is comforted.
O the young chaste bride, thy youth, shall keep thee ever-young,
wander no where else, but ever abide with thy spouse.
I, a hand-maiden of my Spouse, abide with Him My Lord's devotional service is pleasing unto me.
I know the Unknowable and utter the Unutterable Lord and instinctively sing His praise.
She, who utters and enjoys the Name, the Home of elixir, becomes dear unto the True Lord.
O Nanak, she, whom the Guru gives and grants the gift of the Name, is rendered a discerner.
The bride, who is bewitched by the Lord of wealth, sleeps with her Spouse.
She walks according to the Guru's will and is attuned to the True Lord.
Along with her companions and mates, the bride is attached to the True Name and sleeps with her God.
Being single-minded, the Love of the One Lord's Name abides within me, and I am united with God through the True Guru.
Day and night, I forget not my Pure Lord even for a moment and trice and contemplate Him with every breath of mine.
Burn thou the lamp of the Lord's light, O Nanak, and it shall destroy thy dread.
O ye bride, the Lord, whose light pervades all, looks after the three worlds.
The Invisible and Infinite Lord is contained amongst all the hearts.
Stilling his self-conceit, the mortal meets with the Invisible, Infinite and lllimitable True Lord.
With the Lord's Name, Burn-thou Thy pride, worldly love and greed and wash off the filth of sins.
Thus shalt thou read reach the Lord's door and see His vision and the Saviour in His will shall save thee.
Tasting the Lord's Nactar-Name, she is sated, and keeps it clasped to her heart, O Nanak.
Bilawal 1st Guru.
Within my mind has welled up great joy and I have bloomed through Truth.
I am bewitched by the love of my Groom, the Imperishable Lord Master.
The Ever-stable God is the Lord of Lords, Whatever he wills, that alone happens.
My Beneficent Lord, Thou art ever kind and compassionate Thou alone infusest life within the beings.
I possess no other comprehension, deliberation and adoration Only the Lord's Name abodes within my mind.
O Nanak, I know of no religious robe, repairing to holies and stubbornness. I only hold fast to the True Name.
Sublime and bedewed with glee becomes the night and beauteous the day,
when her Bridegroom renders wakeful the bride, asleep in her own Home.
The young bride of the age her young Bridegroom is awakened through the Name and is pleasing to her Groom.
Forsake thou falsehood, deception, love of another and the service of men.
The Lord's name is my neck-lace and I am now anointed with the True Name.
Joining his hands, Nanak, asks for the gift of the True Name.
My Master bless thou me with Thine grace, in Thy will. Awaken thou, O bride of beauteous eyes and utter the Guru's hymns.
He, who hears and believes in the ineffable discourse of the Lord,
obtains salvation; but rare is the one who with Guru's grace understands this liberating unspoken discourse.
He merges in the Name, effaces his self-conceit and the knowledge of the three worlds is revealed unto him.
Imbued with the Limitless Lord, he remains detached and his true mind remembers His virtues.
He, the Lord is fully-filling all the places and Nanak has enshrined Him within his mind.
O Bride, God, the Lower of devotional service, is calling thee to His mansion.
By Guru's instruction thy soul shall bloom and thy body (life) shall become fruitful
Overcoming thy mind, thou shalt love the Lord and reform thyself and know the Lord of the three worlds.
Her soul wabbles and wavers not nor goes it anywhere, rather realises her Spouse alone.
Thou art my support, Thou art my Spouse and Thou art my might and Thou art my might and mainstay.
Ever truthful and immaculate am I, O Nanak and by Guru's instruction, my strife is ended.
Chhant Bilawal 4th Guru. Song of joy.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's instruction, He is obtained.
My God Lord has come to my couch and my soul is merged in peace.
Through the Guru's pleasure, I have attained to my God Lord and revel in His love.
Very fortunate and happy are the brides, on whose brow sparkles the jewel of God Lord's Name.
God, the Lord Master is Nanak's Spouse and is pleasing to his mind.
God, is the honour of the honour less. God the Lord Master is all by Himself.
By Guru's grace, I have eradicated my self-conceit and ever utter the Lord's Name.
Whatever pleases my Lord God, that alone He does. The Lord God imbues man with His own colour.
Slave Nanak is united with the Lord and is satiated with the Lord God's elixir.
In human life alone, the Lord can be attained, This is the time to contemplate the Lord God.
By Guru's grace the happy brides meet with their beloved and immense is then their love for Him.
Evil is the destiny of those, who have not attained the human life.
O my Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord, save Thou Nanak, for he is Thine slave.
The Guru has implanted within me the Infinite Lord's Name and my soul and body are saturated with the Lord's love.
The Lord God's Name is the shield of His devotees and is obtained by Guru's Grace.
Like the fish without water, they can live not without the Lord's Name.
Meeting with God, my life has become fruitful. The Lord himself has fulfilled me.
Bilawal 4th Guru. Slok.
Seek out the thy friend Lord God. By the greatest good luck, He abides the mind.
The perfect Guru O Nanak, shall make thee love the Lord and see him. Chhant.
Chhant.
Doing away with the poison of pride, the bride has come to enjoy her Lord Master.
Through Guru's instruction, she has effaced herself and is attuned to her Lord Master.
Her heart lotus has flowered and the Guru-given gnosis has awakened in her.
Perfectly fortunate is slave Nanak, who has attained to his Lord Master.
God, the Lord Master is pleasing to my mind and with the Lord's Name am I enraptured.
Through my perfect Guru, I have obtained the Lord and embraced love for the Lord God.
My darkness of ignorance is dispelled and the Divine Light is revealed unto me.
Servant Nanak has the Name's support and merges he in the Lord's Name.
The bride is enjoyed by the Beloved God Lord, when he, the Lord God is pleased with her.
Mine eyes are drawn towards the Lord's love, as are the cat's towards the mouse.
The perfect Guru has united me with my God and with the Lord's elixir, I am sated.
Slave Nanak is delighted through the Name and to God's name he is attuned.
God has showered His benediction and has united me, a fool and an idiot, with Himself
Hail, hail unto the Blest Guru, who has dispelled ego from within me.
The very fortunate ones, who are blessed with good destiny clasp the Lord God to their heart.
Praise thou the Lord's Name, O slave Nanak, and be a sacrifice unto the Lord's Name.
Bilawal 5th Guru. Chhant.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The occasion of rejoicing has come and I sing the praise of my Lord.
I have heard of my Imperishable Groom and joy has welled up within my mind.
My mind is in love. When shall I meet with my Perfect Groom, Through good destiny?
O my mate, so counsel thou me, that I may attain to the Lord of Universe and be easily absorbed in Him.
Day and night I stand and service my Lord. By what way can I obtain my Spouse?
Prays Nanak, have Thou mercy on me and attach me to Thine skirt, O Lord.
Joy has welled up as I have purchased the jewel of God.
Following the tracker has found the jewel with the saints.
The dear saints have mercifully met me and I now reflect upon the ineffable discourse of the Lord.
With single mindedness and one heart meditate I on God with love and affection.
With joined hands I pray to the Lord, "O God, bless me with the profit of Thy Praise".
Supplicates Nanak, 'I am Thine slave and thou art my Infinite and Unfathomable Lord.
Infallible is the date fixed for my union with the Lord.
I am wholly in peace and my separation from Him is ended.
The saints come in a body and contemplate the Lord. They form the wondrous members of the wedding party.
Gathering together they calmly arrive at the bride's residence and the bride's men welcome them with hearty love.
Like warp and woof the brides light blends with her Lord's light and all the persons partake of the Nectar of God's Name.
Supplicates Nanak, the saint has wholly united me with my Lord, who is potent to do all the deeds.
Beauteous is my home and blessed is my compound.
Repairing to the Guru's feet, my Lord has entered into my home.
Falling at the Guru's feet, I am awakened in peace and poise and all my desires are fulfilled.
With the dust of the saints feet, my hope is realised and after a long separation I have met with God. my Groom.
Night and day I abide in bliss and the celestial strain resounds. My mind's haughty intellect, I have renounced.
Supplicates Nanak, 'I have sought the Lord's refuge and in the saints society I am attuned to Him.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
I am blessed with auspicious destiny, for my God is my Bride-groom.
In His Court plays the spontaneous celestial strain.
Night and day I abide in bliss, hearing ever the playing of musical instruments in glee.
Disease, sorrow and pain harass not there, nor is birth or death there.
There, the treasures are brimful with wealth, supernatural powers, nectar, ambrosia and the Lord's devotional service.
Prays Nanak, a sacrifice am I unto my Transcendent Lord, the prop of my very life.
Hearken, O my friends and mates, let us meet to sing the song of rejoicing,
Loving that Lord of ours, with soul and body, let us enjoy Him.
Remembering Him with love, we become pleasing to Him and forget Him not ever for a while and trice.
Let us closely hug Him to our bosom, feel not shy, and bathe our soul in the dust of His feet.
Let us fascinate Him, using the intoxicating herb of devotion and wander no where else
Prays Nanak, meeting with God, the Friend, let us obtain the immortal rank.
Wonder-struck, wonder-struck, I have become beholding the merits of my imperishable Lord.
He has seized my hand, taken hold of my arm and has snapped my death's noose.
Holding me by the arm, the Lord has made me His hand-maiden and the plumule of my destiny has sprouted and appeared.
Filth, worldly love and sins have fled and good day has dawned.
The Lord has cast His merciful glance, He loves me with his heart and my great evil intellect is dispelled.
Prays Nanak, I have become immaculate and have met with my Imperishable Lord.
As the ray blends with the Sun and water becomes water,
so merges the human light in the Supreme Light and becomes perfect.
Now I see the Lord, hear of the Lord and narrate but the One Lord.
The Supreme Soul is the Creator of the world Without the Lord, I know no other.
The Lord Himself is the Creator and Himself the Enjoyer. He Himself has made the universe.
Prays Nanak, they alone understand this mystery, who quaff the Lord's elixir.
Bilawal 5th Guru Chhant
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Come, O mate, my mate, come thou under the sway of the Lord's will, O my mate. Let us sing the eulogy of our Spouse.
Eradicate thy ego, O mate, eradicate thou thy ego, O mate, perhaps thou may become pleasing to thy Beloved.
Forsake thou thy self-conceit, worldly love, sin and duality and serve thy One Immaculate Lord.
Ever remain thou under the protection of the feet of thy Merciful Beloved, who is the Destroyer of all the sins.
Be thou the maid slave of the Lord's slave and shed thy sorrow. Like this thou shall not again wander in evil ways.
Says Nanak, my Master show mercy unto me, so that I sing Thine praise.
The Nectar-Name of my beloved Lord is to me like the stick to the blind.
Like a beauteous damsel, the mammon seduces man in many ways.
The mammon is supremely wondrous and restless and exhibits various dalliances.
The shameless mammon seems sweet unto the man's mind and he utters not the Lord's Name.
At home, in forests, on the banks of holies, fasting, worshipping, on the way and on the wharf, she hoodwinks the men.
Says Nanak, shower Thou Thine benediction on me, O Lord. For me, the blind man, Thy Name is the staff.
My beloved Lord, I am masterless, so save Thou me as you may.
I possess no wisdom, with what face can I please Thee?
I am not shrewd, skilful, wise and divine I, the meritless one have no virtue.
I have no scented beauty, nor possess I beautiful eyes, Keep me Thou there, where it pleases Thee, O Lord.
How can I know the state of the Lord of mercy, whose triumph, triumph, triumph is proclaimed by all?
Says Nanak, O Lord, I am the slave of Thine slaves, As Thou deemest, so save Thou me.
I am the fish and Thou the water, O Lord. How can I do without Thee?
I am sparrow-hawk and Thou the rain-drop. Satiated am I, if it falls into my mouth. Falling into my mouth.
Falling into my mouth, it quenches my thirst. Thou art the Lord of my soul, mind and very life.
Fondle me Thou, O my Beloved. I behold Thee amongst all, Meet me Thou that I may be emancipated.
To dispel my spiritual darkness, I ever remember Thee within my mind like the she ruddy-goose, who hopes to see the day to dawn.
Says Nanak, O my love, unite me with Thee. As the fish forgets not the water, so I forsake Thee not.
Blessed, blessed is my destiny, that my Spouse has come into my home.
How embellished looks my beauteous place and my whole garden is reverdured.
The peace-giving Lord has flowered me and has blessed me with immense joy, glee and love.
My youthful Groom is ever-new and of fresh body. With what tongue can I utter His praise?
Embellished is my couch, beholding Him I am bewitched and all my doubt and pain are dispelled.
Says Nanak, my hope is realised and my lllimitable Lord has met me.
Bilawal 5th Guru Chhant Mangal
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Slok.
The beauteous, calm and compassionate Lord, my Spouse is the treasure of all the comforts.
Meeting with the Lord, the Ocean of Bliss, O Nanak, this mortal becomes happy.
Chhant.
Man obtains his Lord Master, the Ocean of Peace, when awakened is his destiny.
Abandoning the idea of honour and dishonour, cling thou to the Lord's feet.
Renounce thy wisdom and cleverness and forsake thou thy evil-natured intellect too.
Nanak, seek thou the refuge of the Lord, thy King, that thy married life may become eternal.
Why should man cling to another, forsaking the Lord, without whom he can live not?
The ignorantly minded person feels not shame. The evil man ever strays.
He, who forsakes his Lord, the Purifier of sinners, say where can he find place of rest?
Nanak, by lovingly serving the Merciful master, the mortal attains to the immortal status.
May thou be burnt, O evil tongue, that utters not the Name of the Sire Lord Master.
O man, thou servest not thy Lord, the Lover of devotion. Thy body shall be eaten up by the crows.
Thou art bewitched by doubt and realise not its agonies. Thou shalt wander in millions of existences.
Nanak, desiring anything other than God, thou shalt be consumed like the worm of ordure.
Embrace thou love for Fortunate Lord and becoming detached, be united with Him.
Forsake thou the love of sandal, raiments, scents, relishes and the vice of pride.
Wabble thou not hither and thither, but remain wakeful in the Lord's service.
Nanak, she who has obtained her Lord Master, ever stable is that chaste bride is that chaste bride.
Bilawal 5th Guru.
O very fortunate ones, meeting with the saints, search ye your Lord.
Imbued with the love of the Supreme Lord, ever sing the praise of the Lord of the world.
By ever serving that Lord, the heart-desired fruits are obtained.
Nanak, seek thou the Lord's refuge and meditate on the Lord, who sports in various ways.
Even for an instant, I forget not my Lord, who has blessed me with everything.
By great good fortune I have met with my Spouse and by Guru's grace I have contemplated Him,
Holding me by the arm my Spouse has pulled me out of darkness and made me His own.
Nanak lives by remembering the Lord's Name and thus are cooled his mind and breast.
O my Lord master, the Knower of hearts, what virtues of Thine, can I recount?
Contemplating and continually contemplating the Lord, I have crossed over to the other shore.
Singing the praise of the Master of the Universe, all my aspirations are fulfilled.
Nanak is delivered by meditating on God, the Lord of all.
Sublime are the eyes, which are bedewed with the love of their Lord.
Beholding my Lord and meeting with the friend of my soul, my desires are realised.
I have obtained the Nectar of God's love and the revelments of sins seem insipid unto me.
Nanak, like the mingling of water with water, my light has blended with the Supreme Light.
Var of Bilawal, 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Slok 4th Guru.
Singing in the Bilawal measure, hymn I the praise of the Sublime God, my Lord Master.
Hearing the Guru's instruction, I have acted thereon Such a perfect destiny was writ on my forehead by the Primal Lord.
The whole day and night, utter I the Lord's praise and within my mind I profess love for God, the Lord Master.
My body and soul are all reverdured and my heart's green garden has blossomed.
With the light of the lamp of Guru's Divine knowledge, the darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
O God, Slave Nanak lives by beholding Thee. Let me see Thy face, even for a moment and trice.
3rd Guru.
Then alone make thou merry, when Lord's Name is in thy mouth.
Beauteous are melody and music if through the Guru's word, one fixes his attention in the Lord.
Even without melody and music, a man serves his God, then he attains honour in the Lord's court.
Nanak, reflecting over the Lord by the Guru's grace, man is rid of his mind's ego.
Pauri.
O Lord God, Thou Thyself art beyond reach and Thou hast created all.
Thou Thyself art wholly pervading the entire universe.
Thou Thyself assumest contemplative mood and Thyself celebratest Thy praise.
Meditate on you God; day and night, O saints, He shall deliver you in the end.
He who serves the Lord is blessed with peace and is absorbed in His Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Through another's love, bliss is obtained not and apostate finds no place.
Through hypocrisy Lord's devotion is performed not, nor is the Transcendent Lord obtained.
If one does religious deeds through mind's obstinacy; they are not approved by the Lord.
Nanak, by understanding his-self through the Guru's grace, man loses his ego from within.
He himself is the Supreme Lord and the Supreme Lord comes to abide in his mind.
His birth and death are erased and his light blends with the Supreme Light.
3rd Guru.
Make merry, O my beloved by embracing love for the one Lord.
You shall be rid of the pain of birth and death and shall remain absorbed the True Lord.
If you walk in the True Guru's will, you shall ever be in bliss and joy.
Sitting in the saints' guild, O man ever sing thou with love the praises of God.
Nanak, beauteous are the persons, who by Guru's grace unite with the Lord's union.
Pauri.
The Lord God, who Himself is within all the beings; He is the Friend of His devotees.
Every one is under the sway of the Lord. Bliss reigns in the home of the saints.
God is an Associate of His saints, so all His slaves, sleep straight with legs crossed.
God is the Master of all. O holy man, enshrine thou Him in thy mind.
None can equal Thee, O Lord, bothering uselessly, every one perishes in the end.
Slok 3rd Guru.
If he knows the Supreme Lord and walks in the True Guru's will; then alone is he a Brahmin.
They, within whose mind the Lord abides are rid of the ailment of self-conceit.
They utter Lord's praises, amass virtues and their soul blends with the Supreme Soul.
In this age, rare are the Brahmins, who think of their Lord with fixed attention.
O Nanak, they on whom True God casts His merciful glance; they remain attuned to the Name.
3rd Guru.
He who serves not the True Guru and cultivates not love for the Guru's word.
He earns the very chronic disease of self-conceit and is extremely selfish.
By doing deeds through mind's obstinacy, man is made to wander in existences again and again.
Fruitful is the birth of the Guru-ward, whom the Lords of Himself, unites with Himself.
O Nanak, if the Merciful Master shows His mercy, then does man obtain the Name's wealth,
Pauri.
All the glories are in the Lord's name, so remember thou thy God's name, through the Guru.
If man fixes his mind on his God's Name he obtains all the things, he asks for,
If man talks his mind's secret thing to the True Guru, then attains he all the comforts.
When the Perfect Guru imparts Divine instruction, then all the hunger departs.
He, who is so pre destined, celebrates his God's praise.
Slok 3rd Guru.
None returns empty-handed from the True Guru's door, He unites man with my Lord's union.
Fruitful is the sight of the True Guru. From him man obtains the fruit, that he desires
nectar-sweet is the Guru's word. It banishes all the craving and hunger.
Quaffing the Lord's elixir, one becomes content and the True Lord comes to abide in his mind.
Remembering the True Lord I have obtained the immortal status and within me rings the celestial strain.
The True Lord is pervading the ten directions. Through the Guru, I am blessed with profound trance.
Nanak, they who have Truth in their mind; those persons are hid not by any one's hiding
3rd Guru.
They, on whom is God's grace, obtain Him by performing the Guru's service.
They, whom the Lord blesses with His true devotion; from men they become angels.
Stilling their ego, God blends them with Himself and through Guru's word, they become pure.
The Guru blesses them with the glory of the Name and, O Nanak, they remain merged in the Lord.
Pauri.
In the great True Guru is the great glory of the Name. the Lord-Creator Himself has magnified it.
All his servants and disciples live by seeing and beholding it. It is pleasing unto their mind.
The slanderers and miscreants, can see not Guru's greatness. they like not the good of others.
What can be achieved by any one's prating, when the Guru is in Love with the True Lord.
The thing, which is pleasing to the Creator, that increases day by day, though all the men may prate senselessly.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Accursed is this longing for duality, Which fastens man's mind to mammon's love.
He, who forsakes the Lord's bliss, for the world's straw, forgetting the Name, suffers pain.
The unwise perverse persons are blind. They are born to die and come and go over and over again.
Their task is fulfilled not and they depart regretting in the end.
He, on whom is God's grace, meets with the True Guru. He alone meditates on the Lord God's Name.
Men, who are imbued with the Name, ever obtain peace, Slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto them.
3rd Guru.
Hope and desire are the mortal's enticers which have fascinated the whole world.
Every one, and all that is in form, is under the sway of death.
By the Lord, death seizes the mortal, He alone is saved, whom the Creator pardons.
Nanak, then alone this man swims across, by Guru's grace, if he abandons his ego.
Contemplating the Guru's word, remain thou detached by overpowering thy hope and desire.
Pauri.
Wherever I go in this world, there I see the Lord God.
In the next world too God the True Judge, and is Himself pervading everywhere.
Accursed are the faces of the false ones and the devotees are blessed with true glory.
True is the Lord and true is His justice Ashes fall on the head of the slanderer.
Contemplating the True Lord, through the Guru, serf Nanak has obtained peace.
Slok 3rd Guru.
By perfect good fortune, the True Guru is met if God Lord showers His benediction.
Of all the efforts, the best effort is the attainment of the Lord's Name.
Then there is coolness and calmness within the mortal and his mind is ever at peace.
Then he eats and wears the Nectar. Nanak through the Name is his glory.
3rd Guru.
O man, hearing the Guru's instruction, thou shalt obtain the Treasure of virtues.
The Giver of peace shall abide in thy mind and thou shall be rid of pride and ego.
Nanak, by the grace of the Treasure of virtues, one is blessed with the Name-Nectar.
Pauri.
All the monarchs, bankers, kings, nobles, dukes and chieftains that there are, they are all the creation of the Lord.
Whatever God makes them do, that alone do they. All of them are the Lord's mumpers.
That such God, the Lord of all, is on the side of the True Guru. All the castes, the four sources of production and the entire world, He has made the slaves of the True Guru to perform his service.
O God's saints, see such magnificence of serving God, who has beaten an d dispelled from within the body-village all the enemies and evil-doers.
The Lord God has become merciful unto the saintly persons. Showering His benediction, the Lord God has Himself protected them.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Within the mind of the egocentric is the everlasting pain of deception, so he embraces not the Lord's meditation.
In pain he does the deeds, in pain he abides and pain he shall suffer hereafter.
By God's grace he meets with the True Guru, then is he attuned to the True Name.
Nanak, he then easily procures peace and from within him hasten away doubt and dread
3rd Guru.
The pious person is ever in love with God, The Lord's Name is pleasing to his mind.
He sees and speaks in the will of the supreme Guru and uttering the Name gathers peace.
Nanak, through the Guru, Divine knowledge is revealed and blackness and darkness of ignorance are dispelled.
3rd Guru.
The filthy and ignorant ego centrics die disgracefully.
The Guru-wards are immaculate, for they keep the Lord clasped to their heart.
Says Nanak, hearken O men, by brother.
If ye serve the True Guru, your filth of pride shall be washed off.
In man's mind prevails the pain of doubt and he ever bothers his head in the worldly affairs.
They who are asleep in duality, awake not ever, They are in love with wealth and worldly, attachment.
He remembers not the Name and ponders not over the Guru's hymns. This is the view of the perverse person.
He Loves not God's Name and loses his life in vain, Death's courier beats and humiliates him, O Nanak.
Pauri.
He alone is the True kind, whom the Lord blesses with His true devotion.
People owe allegiance to him No other shop stocks this merchandise, nor deals in this trade.
He who is faithful to the pious persons, receives God's wealth, The faithless gathers but ashes.
God's saints are the dealers of the Lord's Name Death's Minister the tax-gather, draws not near them.
Serf Nanak has loaded the wealth of the Name of ever care-free Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
In this age the saint alone earns the Lord's wealth. All other men are gone astray in doubt.
By Guru's grace the Name abides in his mind and night and day, he meditates on the Lord's Name.
He remains detached in the midst of mammon and burns off his ego with the Name.
He himself crosses over and saves his lineage too. Blessed is his mother, who bore him,
Poise and peace ever abide in his mind and he embraces love for the True Lord.
Brahma, Vishnu stray in three qualities and increase their ego and desire.
Reading and uttering their texts, the Pandits and the silent sages are gone astray. They fix their mind on another's love.
Deceived are the renunciators, pilgrims and solitarians. Without the Guru, they attain not the reality.
The woe-begone apostates ever go wrong in doubt and they lose their life in vain.
Nanak the men who are imbued with the Name remain unwavering. Forgiving them the Lord blends them with Himself.
3rd Guru.
Nanak, praise thou Him, under whose sway all things are.
Remember that Lord, O mortals, without whom, there is not any other.
By the Guru's grace, the Lord abides in the mind and then one ever, and ever remains at peace.
Pauri.
They, who through the Guru, earn not the wealth of the Lord's Name, they are bankrupts in this age.
They go abegging throughout the whole world and no one even spits in their mouth.
They back-bite others, lose their credit, rather get themselves exposed as well.
the wealth for which they slander others, that wealth comes not to their hand through backbiting, though they may wander wheresoever they like.
By Guru's grace, God's riches are attained through servant's sentiment, but the unfortunate ones can receive it not, therefrom In no other place in the country and abroad this Divine wealth is found.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The True Sikh of the Guru is ridden not with doubt ever and worries depart from within him.
Whatever he does, he does that in poise. Regarding his praise one can say not anything.
Nanak, the Lord Himself hears the prayer of those, whom he makes His own.
3rd Guru.
He within whose mind is the immaculate Name overcomes death, by stilling his desire in the mind itself.
He awakes night and day, seeps not ever and easily quaffs he the Nectar.
he talks sweetly, ambrosial is his speech and night and day sings he his God's praise.
He abides in his own Home and ever looks beauteous, Meeting with him Nanak procures peace.
Pauri.
The wealth of God's Name is like the gems and rubies. That wealth of God's Name, the Guru has caused to be given to by the Lord.
If something is seen with some one, then one may ask for that something, or some one may cause that something to be given. This wealth of God's Name cannot. Perforce, be shared with another.
He alone obtains a share in the wealth go God's Name, whom the Lord creator blesses with devotion to the True Guru and who is so pre-ordained.
Of this wealth of God's Name there is no share-holder, nor has anyone its property deed. There is no dispute with any one regarding its boundary and border. If any one talks ill of the wealth of God's Name, the Lord has his face blackened in the four dire
Against the gifts of God, no man's might and slandering can avail. These gifts of the Lord ever, ever increase day by day.
Slok 3rd Guru.
O Lord, the world is on fire. Showering thy benediction save it Thou.
Through whichever way it can be delivered, delivers it that wise.
The True Guru shows the path of peace, in the meditation of the True Name.
Without the Lord, Nanak sees no other Pardoner.
3rd Guru.
Through fascinating mammon, wells up ego and man is yoked to duality.
By slaying, it can be slain not, nor can it be sold off at a shop.
When man burns it off with the Gurbani, then alone departs it from within him.
His body and soul become immaculate and the Name comes to abide in his mind.
Nanak, the Lord's Name is the destroyer of mammon and it is obtained through the Guru.
Pauri.
Realising this to be manifest will of the Primal Lord, the True. Guru blessed Guru (Amardas) With the Glory of the True Guru.
The Guru Thoroughly tested his sons, Nephews, sons-in-law and to and of kindreds and humbled the pride of them all.
Withersoever man beholds, thither the beholds my True Guru. The Lord has blessed the Guru with the wealth of the whole world.
He who meets with and believes in the True Guru; he is embellished here and hereafter. he who turns his back on the Guru; he wanders in defiled place.
The Lord is on the side of slave Nanak, He, the Omnipotent and Omniscient God is my Friend.
Seeing the food served, every one came and fell at the True Guru's feet and he dispelled pride from the minds of all.
Slok 1st Guru.
Some one sows the seed, another harvests the crop and yet another beats the grain out of straw.
Nanak even this much cannot be known, who shall ultimately eat the corn.
1st Guru.
He within whose mind the Lord is enshrined; he alone is ferried across.
Whatever pleases the Lord, that alone happens, O Nanak.
Pauri.
The merciful Transcendent Lord has ferried me across the world-ocean.
The compassionate Perfect Guru has dispelled my doubt and dread.
The dreadful demons like lust and wrath have all been overpowered.
I have enshrined the treasure of the ambrosial Name in my throat and heart.
Nanak, in the society of saints, I have embellished my birth and death.
Slok 3rd Guru.
They, who forget their Lord's Name, are said to be false.
The five thieves plunder their home and self-conceit breaks into it.
The mammon-worshippers know not God's savour and are defrauded by their evil nature
They, who lose the ambrosial Name through doubt, remain wholly engrossed in sin.
They make, love with the wicked and pick up quarrel with the Lord's slaves.
Nanak, the mammon-lovers are bound by death's courier and suffer pain in hell.
They act as their pre-natal deeds leads them. As the Lord keeps them, so do they live.
3rd Guru.
They, who serve their True Guru, become powerful from being powerless.
With every breath and morsel, the Lord ever abides in their mind and the death's minister can eye them not.
The Lord God's Name-Nectar is enshrined in their mind and the goddess of wealth is their hand-maiden.
He who becomes the slave of God's slaves, he obtains the supreme wealth.
Nanak, I am ever a sacrifice unto him, within whose soul and body abides the Lord.
They, in whose destiny it is so writ in the past; they alone are in love with the saints.
Pauri.
Whatever the Perfect True Guru utters, that the Supreme Lord hears.
That word of the Guru pervades the world and everyone utters it with his mouth.
Many are the glories of the Lord they can be counted not.
The True Guru possess Truth, poise and bliss and (Blesses he his sikh with) the true Name-gem.
Nanak, the saints are embellished by the Supreme Lord and they become like the True Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The Mortal understands not his ownself and deems God Lord to be remote.
He forgets the Guru's service. How can his mind abide in the Lord's presence?
The way-ward person loses his life in unsubstantial covetousness and falsehood.
Nanak through the True Name, the Lord pardons the mortal and ushering him into His presence, unites him with Himself.
3rd Guru.
True is God Lord's praise. Through the Guru's grace, man utters the World-Lord's Name.
By praising the Name night and day and contemplating God, the mind becomes happy.
By great good destiny, I have obtained my God, the Perfect embodiment of Supreme Bliss.
Serf Nanak has praised the Lord's Name and his soul and body shall not again be devastated.
Pauri.
If some one calumniates the True Guru and, then seeks the Guru's protection;
His past sins the True Guru pardons and unites him with the saints' congregation.
As with the falling of rain, the water of lanes, brooks and ponds flows into the Ganges and by falling in the Ganges, it is rendered sacred and holy.
Such is the greatness in the Uninimical True Guru, that meeting with him, thirst and hunger depart and man instantly obtains Divine peace.
Nanak, behold thou this wonder of God. My True King, that he who obeys the True Guru, him every one loves.
Bilawal Saints' hymns. Kabir Ji's.
There is but one God. True is His Name and creative His personality. By the Guru's grace, He is obtained.
This world is such a show, where no one can stay.
Straight, the straight way proceed thou, otherwise thou shalt be badly buffeted. Pause.
The children, the old and the young, O my brother, shall all be taken away by death.
The poor man, the Lord has made like a mouse and the cat of death eats him up.
The rich and the poor person, to them she owes no allegiance.
She destroys the King equally with his subjects, So powerful is death.
They, who are pleasing to God become God's servants. Theirs is a special tale.
They come and go not, nor do they die ever, They abide with the Supreme Lord.
Inculcate in your mind that by forsaking son, wife, wealth and property,
thou shalt meet with Lord, the Sustainer of earth. Says Kabir, hear this O ye saints.
Bilawal.
I read not books of knowledge, nor do I understand controversy.
I have grown mad reciting and hearing God's praises.
My father, I am mad. The whole world is sane, I am mad.
I am spoiled, let no one else be spoiled likewise. Pause.
I have not become insane of my own will. The Omnipresent Lord has made me mad.
The true Guru has burnt off my doubt.
I am spoiled and I have lost my intellect.
Let no one go astray in doubt like me.
He alone is mad, who understands not himself.
When man knows himself, then does he know the One Lord.
He, who is not inebriated with Divine love now, shall not be inebriated ever afterwards.
Says Kabir, I am imbued with the Lord's love.
Bilawal.
Abandoning my home, though I may repair to the forest region and pick up tubers to live on;
even then my sinful and evil mind forsakes not misdeeds.
How can I be saved? How can I cross the great and terrible world ocean, the treasure of water?
Preserve me, preserve me, O my Lord, I, Thine slave, have sought Thy refuge. Pause.
I can leave not the desire to commit the mortal sins.
Though I make many efforts to hold back my mind, yet it clings to them again and again.
My life, youth and old age have passed. But no good have I done.
This invaluable soul, attached to a shell, becomes like it.
Says Kabir, O my God, the Lord of wealth, Thou art contained amongst all.
There is none so merciful as Thou and none so sinful as I, O Lord.
Bilawal.
Rising early, Kabir daily brings fresh pot and his life passes in plastering it.
He thinks not at all of warp and woof and remains absorbed in the Nectar of God's name.
Who in our lineage has uttered the Name of the Lord?
Ever since this worthless son of mine has taken to rosary, since then we have had no peace.
Hear, O elder sister-in-law, Hear O Younger sister-in-law, a wondrous thing has occurred.
This boy has ruined out seven threads (weaving) business. Why has not this lad died?
Kabir, the one God is the Lord of all the comforts. The Guru has blessed me with His Name.
He is such, who preserved the honour of saint Prahlad and destroyed Harnakhash with His nails.
I have abandoned the Gods of the Ancestors of my house and taken to Guru's instruction.
Says Kabir, the Lord is the destroyer of all sins. His saints He emancipates.
Bilawal.
There is no King equal to my God.
All these lords of the world are but for four days, They make false display. Pause.
Thou, O Lord, overshadow the three worlds. Ho can he, who is Thy slave waver?
Who can raise his hand against the Lord's slave? One can tell not the Lord's extent.
O my thoughtless and foolish soul remember thou thy God and the unbeaten melody of bliss shall play for thee,
Says Kabir, my doubt and misgiving are ended and the Lord has exalted me like Dhru and Prahlad.
Bilawal.
Preserve me, O Lord, though I have disobeyed Thee.
I have not practised humility, Faith, worship and devotional service. I am proud and am holding fast to crookedness. Pause.
Believing this body as immortal, I have pampered it, but it is a perishable and frail vessel.
he, who has fashioned, created and embellished me, forgetting Him I am attached to another.
I am Thy thief and cannot be called Thy saint, I have fallen at Thine feet for protection.
Says Kabir, hear Thou this prayer, O Lord, Send me not the tiding of the Death's courier.
Bilawal.
Humbly stand I before Thy court, O my Lord.
Without Thee who can take care of me. Open Thy door and bless me with Thy vision. Pause.
Thou art the richest of the rich, beneficent and detached with mine ears I hear Thy great praise Of whom should I beg?
I see every one a pauper From Thee alone obtain I salvation.
Jaidev, Namdev and Sudama, the Brahman, Thou hast blessed them with infinite grace.
Says Kabir, Thou art the All-powerful and generous Lord. Thou bestowest the four boons without delay.
Bilawal
The Yogi, with his staff, ear-rings, patched coat and wallet,
and wearing a yogi's grab, wanders about under erroneous notion.
Abandon thy postures and suspension of breath, O demented man.
Renounce thou thy postures and ever meditate on God, O crazy man. Pause.
The wealth, which thou beggest for, that has been enjoyed by the three worlds.
Says Kabir, the Lord alone is the Yogi in this world.
Bilawal
O Lord of the world and Master of the universe, this worldliness has made me forget Thine feet.
Even a bit of love for Thee wells not up in Thy slave. What can the poor slave do?. Pause.
Curse on the body, curse on the wealth, curse on the worldliness and doubly accursed is the tricky mind and wit.
O man, firmly restrain thou this mammonish desire. By subjugating it, thou shalt save thyself.
What avails agriculture, what commerce? False is the worldly pride.
Says Kabir, such persons are ultimately ruined and death comes to them in the end.
Bilawal.
Within the pool of the body, there is a peerless lotus flower.
God, the Supreme Light and sublime Person, who has no outline or form, is within it.
O my soul, abandon thou thy doubt and contemplate the Lord God, who is the Life of the world. Pause.
The soul is not seen coming, nor is it seen going.
Whence the body is born, there it perishes like the leaves of the water-lily.
Knowing it to be false, he who forsakes mammon, procures the peace of the Lord's meditation.
Says Kabir, within thy mind, serve thou thy Lord, who is the slayer of Mur demon.
Bilawal.
Since I have embraced love for the Master of the Universe, my doubt of birth and death is cast away.
In my very life, I am absorbed in the Profound Lord the Guru's instruction has awakened me. Pause.
The sound which is produced from bronze; that sound is again blended with it.
When bronze is broken wherein does the sound merge, O Pandit?
I have seen the Lord in the world, the confluence of three qualities. He is awake in all the hearts.
Now such an understanding is revealed, that within my very mind, I have become a renouncer.
I have understood my ownself and my light is merged in the All-Light.
Says Kabir, I have now realised the Lord of the world and my mind is propitiated.
Bilawal.
O my Lord, why should that man waver, within whose mind abide Thine lotus feet?
Believe that all the comforts and the nine treasures are his who effortlessly and tranquilly utter Lord's praise. Pause.
Then alone is this mind rendered pure, when man sees the Lord amongst all and when he opens the knot of his crookedness.
The mortal should constantly restrain himself from sins and taking the scale of Lord's meditation, ought to weigh his mind in it.
Where he goes, there he obtains peace and the sins shake him not, O Lord.
Says Kabir, my mind is enraptured, since I have merged it in the love of the Lord master.
Bilawal. Hymns of Saint Namdev ji.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
The Guru has made my life fruitful.
I have forgotten sorrow and have obtained peace within me.
The Guru has blessed me with the collyrium of Divine knowledge.
Without the Lord's Name, vain is the mortal's life. Pause.
Through meditation Namdev has known his Lord.
His soul is blended with the Lord, the Life of the World.
Bilawal. Hymns of Saint Ravidas
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
Every one laughed on seeing my poverty Such was my condition.
Now, I hold the eighteen supernatural powers on the palm of my hand All this is Thine grace.
Thou knowest, I am nothing, O my Lord, the Destroyer of dread.
All the sentient beings seek Thy refuge, O Lord, the Adjuster of all affairs. Pause.
They, who enter Thy sanctuary, they no longer bear the load of sins, O Lord.
The high and low have been saved by Thee from the shameless world.
Says Ravidas, why say more regarding the ineffable discourses of God?
What Thou art, that Thou art alone. To what can I liken thy praise?
Bilawal.
The family, in which the Lord's saint is born,
whether it be of high or low caste, poor or rich, shall have its umblemished fragrance and fame is blazoned through the world. Pause.
Whether he be a Brahman a cultivator, menial, a warrior, a bard, a pariah and a low-mind person,
he becomes pure by the Lord's meditation and saves himself and saves the families of both his parents.
Blest is the village, blest the place of his birth and felicitous is his pure family in all the worlds.
He who drinks the sublime elixir abandons other relishes and becoming intoxicated with the Divine Nectar, sheds and forsakes sins.
Amongst the scholars, warriors, canopied Kings and others, there is no one equal to the Lord's devoted slave.
Says Ravidas, as the leaves of the water-lily remain detached near (in) water, so is the life of those saints in the world.
The hymns of Sadhna. Rag Bilawal
There is but One God. By The True Guru's grace, is He attained to.
For a King's daughter, a man assumed the disguise of Vishnu,
for the love of lust and his own object, but the Lord protected his honour.
What merit is in Thee, O Guru of the world, if my evil deeds are not to be erased?
What avails it to seek lion's refuge, if he is to be eaten up by a jackal?. Pause.
For want of a drop of rain, the pied-cuckoo suffers agony.
When its life is gone, then even if an ocean is at hand, it is of no avail.
Now that my life is grown weary, and I am not to last much longer, how can I be patient?
If I am drowned to death and a boat is obtained, say, how shall I embark thereon?
I am nothing, I have nothing and nothing is mine.
At this conjuncture, protect Thou my honour, O Lord, Sadhna is Thy slave.
There is but One God. True is His Name, creative His personality and Immortal His form He is without fear, sans enmity, unborn and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Rag Gond Chaupadas 4th Guru.
O man, if, in thy mind, thou rest thy hope on God, then shalt thou obtain thy heart-desired many many fruits.
God knows everything that passes in the mind. The Lord overlooks not even a sesame of any one's labour.
O my soul, put thou thy hope in that God Lord, who is contained in everything.
O my soul, rest thou thy hope on the Lord of the World and the Master of the World and the Master of Universe.
The hope, which is reposed in any other than God, that hope is fruitless and goes all in vain. Pause.
The wealth, worldly love and the entire family, that thou seest, pin not thou thy hope on them. Likewise thou shalt lose the merit of thy life.
Nothing lies in their hands. What can these poor fellows do? By their doing nothing can be set aright.
My soul, place thou reliance on God, thy Friend, who shall save thee and also emancipate all thy family.
If thou repossesses any hope in another, or in a friend, other than the Lord, know that it shall not avail thee anywhere.
This hope of another friend is born of duality. Being false, it all vanishes in a moment.
O my soul, have thou faith in thy True Beloved Lord, who shall approve all thy service.
Hope and desire are all Thine, O my Lord. As Thou give man hope, so the hope he cherishes.
Nothing lies in the hands of any man, O my Master. Such an understanding, my True Guru has imparted unto me.
My Lord Master, Thou knowest the yearning of Thy slave Nanak. He beholds Thine vision, and with Thine vision, he remains satiated.
Gond 4th Guru.
Ever serve and remember thou such God, who a moment destroys all the sins.
Forsaking God, if man reposes hope in another, then all is service the Lord renders unfruitful.
O my soul serve thou Lord Master the peace-giver, by serving whom all the hunger shall depart.
O my mind, repose thou reliance on Thy Lord.
Wherever I go, my Lord is there with me. God saves the honour of His saints and slaves. Pause.
If thou tellest of thy pain to another, then he, in return, tells thee of his still greater pain.
Tell thy pain to God, the Lord, who shall instantaneously dispel thy sorrow.
Forsaking such a Lord, if thou narrate thy misery to another, by so narrating to another thou shalt die of shame.
O my soul, the kindreds, friends and brothers, that thou see in the world, they all meet with thee for the sake of their own selfish ends.
The day, when their self-interest is not served, that day none shall draw near thee.
O my soul, day and night serve thou thy God, who shall come to thy aid in weal and woe.
Why to repose confidence in him, O my soul, who can rescue thee not at the last moment?
Receiving the Guru's instruction, remember thou the Lord and repeat His Name. In the end, the Lord redeems those who cherish His love in their mind.
Says slave Nanak, night and day contemplate the Lord's Name, O God's saints. Truly, this is the only hope for one's emancipation.
Gond, 4th Guru.
Remembering the Lord, thy mind shall ever abide in bliss and peace and thy soul shall become calm and cool.
As the heat of the greatly burning sun of mammon, is wholly cooled down by seeing Guru, the moon.
O my soul, night and day remember and contemplate thou thy Lord's Name.
Ever serve thou that such a Lord of thine, who preserves thee here and there and at all the places. Pause.
He, in whom are contained all the treasures. O my soul, meditate thou on that Lord and search for God, the jewel, through the Guru.
They, who ponder over God, attain to God, my Lord, I wash the feet of those servants of God.
sublime and the greatest of the great is that saint, who realises the Name and obtains the Lord's elixir.
God Himself increases the magnificence of that saint, which by anyone's decreasing, decreases not, even to the extent of a sesame and trice.
With joined hands, day by day ever meditate thou on Him, O my mind, by whom thou shalt be blessed with bliss.
Bless slave Nanak with one gift, O Lord God, that Thy feet may ever abide within my mind.
Gond 4th Guru.
As many as are the kings, emperors, nobles, lords and chiefs, deem them all as perishable, false and engrossed in duality.
The Eternal Lord is ever Stable and Immovable. By meditating on Him, O my soul, thou shalt be approved.
O my soul, meditate thou on the Lord's Name, which shall ever be a support of thine.
He who, by Guru's instruction attains to the Lord's mansion, so great as his, no other man's might is. Pause.
As many as men of wealth, men of high family and men of property, thou seest, O my soul, they shall all perish away like the short-lived colour of saf-flower.
O my soul, ever serve thou thy True Immaculate God, where-with thou shall obtain honour in the Lord's court.
There are four castes of the literates, warriors, cultivators and menials and the four stages of life, He, who meditates on the Lord, is the most distinguished amongst men.
As the poor castor-oil-plant, abiding near the sandal-tree, becomes fragrant, so is the sinner approved by associating with the society of saints.
He is the highest of all and the purest of all within whose mind abides the Illustrious Lord.
Slaves Nanak shampoos the feet of that saint of God, who though of low family but has become His slave.
Gond 4th Guru.
God, the Inner-knower pervades all. As the Lord makes man do, so does he act.
So serve thou ever such God of thine, O my soul, who shall save thee from all.
O my soul, contemplate thou on thy Lord and ever read of God.
Without thy God, no one can slay or save thee, Then, O my soul, why should thou worry?. Pause.
The Creator-Lord has made the entire universe and has Himself infused His Light therein.
The One Lord speaks and the One Lord makes men speak, The Perfect Guru has shown me the one Lord.
Within and without, the Lord is with and close to, thee. Say thou, O my mind, how can thou hide anything from Him?
If thou serve thy God with true and pure heart, then, O my mind, thou shall be blessed with all the comforts.
He under whose sway is everything, is the greatest of all. Ever contemplate thou on Him O my soul.
O serf Nanak, that God is with thee. Ever meditate thou on thy Lord and He shall emancipate thee.
Gond 4th Guru.
Like a thirsty man, without water, my soul deeply yearns for the Lord's vision.
The shaft of the Lord's love has pierced my mind.
My God Lord alone knows my malady and the pain within my heart. Pause.
He, who narrates to me the anecdote of my Beloved God; he alone is my brother, and he the friend.
Join, Join, O my mates, sing the praises of my Lord and follow the counsel of the patient True Guru.
Fulfil Thou, O Lord God the desire of slave Nanak. By beholding Thee my body abodes in peace.
Rag Gond 5th Guru. Chaupadas
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The Lord is the Creator of all and He Himself enjoys all. Pause.
It is the Creator who listens and the Creator who sees.
He, the Creator is unmanifest and manifest is the Creator.
It is the creator who creates and the Creator who destroys.
The Creator pervades all and detached too is the Creator.
He the Maker is the speaker and Maker the Discerner.
It is the maker, who comes, and goes too the Maker.
The Creator is the Absolute Lord and the Creator the Related One.
By Guru's grace, O Nanak such one and the same eye-view is obtained.
Gond 5th Guru.
O mortals, thou art caught like the fish and the monkey and art entangled in the dye of saf-flower.
The placing of thy foot and drawing in of thy breath all counted, Thou shalt be delivered singing God's praises
O my soul, reform thyself and shed thy aimless wandering.
Why goest thou to another's house? Like this thou shalt find no place for thy dwelling. Pause.
Impelled by the pleasure of sexual organ, like an elephant, thou art attached to thy family.
Family members are like the birds, that meeting together separate again contemplating thy Lord God in the saints guild, thou shalt become immovable.
As the fish perishes through the relish of the tongue so is the fool ruined by his covetousness.
Thou hast fallen under the power of thy five enemies. The can escape from them by repairing to the Lord's protection.
O Destroyer of grief, be Thou merciful to the meek. All the men and the lower creatures are thine O Lord.
May I obtain the gift of ever seeing Thy sight and meeting with Thee, O Lord. Nanak is the slave of Thine slaves.
Rag Gond 5th Guru Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
He, who made and created thy soul and life,
who infusing His light in the dust, exalted thee,
who gave thee everything for use and blessed thee with victuals to enjoy;
forsaking that Lord, O fool, where else goest thou now?
Attach thou thyself to the service of the transcendent Lord.
It is through the Guru. that the Immaculate Lord is known. Pause.
He, who has created plays of various sorts,
who creates and destroys in the moment,
and whose state and extent can be described not;
O my soul, ever meditate upon that Lord.
The Immovable Lord comes and goes not.
Countless are Master's merits, How many of His virtues should I count?
He whose treasures are brimful with the emeralds of the Name,
gives support to all the hearts.
Whose Name is the True Lord,
millions of sins are washed off by singing, even for an instant, the praise of Him.
The Lord is the infantine intimate of man and the friend of His saints.
The Master is the mainstay of Nanak's life, His love and his mind.
Gond 5th Guru.
With the Name, I have entered into dealings.
The Name alone is the prop of this soul.
My mind has sought the protection of the Name.
Contemplating the Name, Millions of sins are erased.
God has blessed me with the capital of the Name alone.
My mind's faith is to reflect over the Name, by associating with the Guru.
The Name is the wealth of my soul.
Whither-so-ever I go, the Name keeps my company.
The Name seems sweet unto my mind.
In water, dry land and every place, I see the Name pervading.
Through the Name, one's face becomes bright in the Lord's court.
Through the Name all the generations are saved.
Through the Name my affairs are arranged.
With the Name this soul of mine is domesticated.
Through the Name, I have become fearless.
Through the Name, my comings and goings have ended.
The perfect Guru has united me with God, the Treasure of virtues.
Says Nanak, I now abide in the celestial bliss.
Gond 5th Guru.
He, who grants honour to the dishonoured,
who gives gifts to all the hungry,
and who saves the mortal in the terrible womb;
ever make thou obeisance unto that Lord.
Remember thou in thy mind, such a Lord.
He shall be thy succourer everywhere in easy and difficult walks of life. Pause.
A pauper and a king are alike before him.
In an ant and elephant, He is all-pervading.
He consults not, nor seeks the advice of another.
Whatever He does, that He does by Himself.
He, whose limit no one knows;
That Immaculate Lord is all by Himself.
He Himself is with form and Himself formless.
Within every heart is He the Lord and of all the heart He is the mainstay.
Through the love of the Name, the saints becomes the Lord's beloved.
Singing the Lord's praise, the saints ever remain blissful.
With the Name's love, the Lord's slaves remain satiated.
Nanak falls at the feet of those slaves of the Lord.
Gond 5th Guru.
They in whose association this soul becomes pure,
They in whose association the Lord God is remembered,
They in whose association the sins are erased,
and they in whose association the mind is illumined,
those saints of God are my friends.
In whose association are ever sung the praises of the Name alone. Pause.
By their counsel the Lord Master abides in the mind.
By their instruction doubt and dread flee.
Through them immaculate and sublime glory is attained to.
The world craves for the dust of their feet.
Millions of sinners are emancipated by associating with them.
They have the support of the Name of the One Formless Lord.
He knows the secrets of all the beings,
the Immaculate Lord, the Treasure of mercy.
When He, the Transcendent Lord, becomes merciful,
then is met the beneficent Guru saint.
Day and night Nanak contemplates the Name.
Through the Lord's Name, the mortal is blessed with peace poise and pleasure.
Gond 5th Guru.
Reflect thou over the Guru's image in thy mind,
and by Guru's instruction propitiate thy soul with the Guru's hymns.
Enshrine thou the Guru's feet in thy mind.
Ever make thou obeisance unto the Guru, thy supreme Lord.
No one should stray in doubt in this world.
Know, that without the Guru, no one can cross the world-ocean. Pause.
To the strayer, the Guru shows the path.
Forsaking another, the Guru attaches him to the Lord's devotional service.
The Guru obliterates the fear of his birth and death.
Infinite is the greatness of the Perfect Guru.
By Guru's grace, the inverted heart-lotus becomes erect,
and flowers and the light dawns in the utter darkness.
He who created me; Him I know through the Guru.
By Guru's grace, my foolish soul has been propitiated.
The Guru is the Creator and the Guru is potent to do everything.
The Guru-God is and shall ever be.
Says Nanak, this is what the Lord has made me understand.
Without the Guru, salvation is obtained not, O brother.
Gond 5th Guru.
O my soul, think thou of the Guru, the great Guru.
Without the Guru, I have not another.
Day and night I lean, on the Guru's support.
No one can hold-back his beneficence.
Deem thou the Guru and God as One.
Whatever pleases him, that becomes acceptable. Pause.
He, whose soul is attached to the Guru's feet,
his pain, suffering and doubt hasten away.
By Guru's service, the mortal obtains honour.
Unto the Guru, I am ever a sacrifice.
Seeing the Guru's vision, I am ecstasied.
Perfect is the service of the Guru's slave.
Pain befalls not the Guru's serf.
The Guru's slave is renowned in ten directions.
Guru's glory one can utter not.
The Guru remains absorbed in the Supreme Lord.
Says Nanak, he who is blessed with perfect fortune,
his mind is attached to the Guru's feet.
Gond 5th Guru.
I worship my Guru. My Guru is himself the Lord.
My Guru is the Transcendent Lord and my Guru, the Auspicious Master.
My Guru, is the Imperceptible and Inscrutable Luminous Lord.
I serve the Guru's feet which are adorned by all.
Without the Guru, I have no other place.
Night and day, contemplate I the great Guru's Name. Pause.
The Guru is my Divine knowledge and within my mind, reflect I on the Guru.
My Guru is the cherisher of the world and the Omnipotent Glorious God.
With joined hands, remain under the protection of the Guru.
Without the Guru, I have not another.
The Guru is the boat to cross the dreadful world-ocean.
By Guru's service, man is released from the clutches of the death's couriers.
Guru's instruction illumines the darkness.
In the Guru's association all are emancipated.
By great good destiny the Perfect Guru is attained.
Through Guru's service pain befalls not the mortal.
No one can undo the Guru's order.
Nanak is the Guru and Nanak himself is He, the Lord.
Gond 5th Guru.
Have thou dealings only with the Lord Master.
The Lord Master's Name is the prop of my very life.
Sing thou the praise of the Lord Master's Name.
The Omnipresent Lord is pervading all.
Associating thyself with the pious persons, utter thou the Lord's Name.
Of all, this is the most immaculate and perfect occupation. Pause.
Amass thou the treasure of the wealth of God's Name.
Make thou the Lord Master's Name thy only fare.
Forget thou not he Lord's Name.
The Guru has mercifully revealed the Name to me.
The Lord Master's Name is ever a helper of mine.
Embrace thou love for the Lord Master's Name.
Uttering the Lord's Name, I have become immaculate,
and my sins of many births are washed off.
Uttering the Lord's Name, births and deaths come to an end.
Repeating the Lord's Name, the mortal crosses the awful world-ocean.
The Luminous Lord is the highest of all.
Night and day serf Nanak meditates on Him.
Gond 5th Guru.
My Master has held the five demons in check.
He has belaboured and scared them away from associating with (me) His slave.
They can find not the mansion of the Lord's saint.
Meeting together, the Lord's slave sing the Lord's praise.
The five demons are the rulers of the entire world,
but they are the water-carriers of the Lord's saint. Pause.
They exact tribute from the world.
Unto the Lord's devotee they make obeisance.
They plunder and dishonour the mammon worshipper.
They rub and wash the feet of the saintly persons.
One God, the mother, has given birth to the five sons,
and setting afoot the play of the four sources of creation, like the earth-born etc; has created the world.
Uniting with the three qualities the mortals make merry.
Forsaking these three modes, the Lord's slaves abide above them.
The Lord has mercifully rescued His slaves.
He, to whom they belong; he has saved them by driving away the sins.
Says Nanak, sublime is the Lord's devotion.
Without the Lord's meditation, all are distressed.
Gond 5th Guru.
Through God's Name, all the suffering s and strifes are dispelled.
Miseries are ended and peace takes their place.
Remembering and contemplating the Nectar-Name, I am satiated
By saints' grace, I have attained all the fruits.
Meditating on the Lord, His slaves ferry across the world-ocean,
and their sins of many births are washed off.
Enshrining the Guru's feet within my mind,
I have crossed the ocean of fire.
I am rid of all the ills of coming and going,
and am attached to the Lord in profound trance.
In all the spaces and inter-spaces the One Lord is contained.
The Lord is the Inner-knower of all the hearts.
He, whom the Lord mercifully blesses with the right understanding,
he utters the Lord's Name through the eight watches.
He, within whom the Lord Himself abides;
in his mind dawns the Divine Light.
With devotion and love, Sing thou the praise of thy God.
Meditating on the Transcendent Lord, O Nanak, thou shalt be emancipated.
Gond 5th Guru.
Make thou obeisance unto the Guru's lotus feet,
and eradicate from this body thy lust and wrath.
Be thou the dust of all the persons,
and see the Lord in every heart and all the things.
In this way dwell thou on the World-Cherisher and the Master of the universe.
My body and wealth belong to the Lord and so does belong my very life to the Lord. Pause.
Throughout the eight watches of the day celebrate thou the Lord's praise.
This is the only aim of the mortal's life.
Shed thou thy ego and know the Lord to be with thee.
By saints grace imbue thee thy soul with the Lord.
Realise thou Him, who did create thee.
Hereafter, thou shalt obtain honour in the Lord's court.
Thy soul and body shall become pure and blissful,
uttering with thy tongue the Name of the Lord.
O my Lord, Merciful to the meek, show Thou compassion unto me.
My soul asks for the dust of thine saints' feet,
O Lord, be merciful and bless me with this gift,
that Nanak may pass his life by meditating on the Master's Name.
Gond, 5th Guru.
My service of the Lord with incense and lamps is that,
over and over again, I make obeisance unto my Creator.
Forsaking all, I have now grasped the Lord's protection.
By great good destiny the Guru mightily pleased with me.
Through the eight watches of the day, sing I the World-Lord's praise.
My body and wealth belongs to the Lord, so does belong my very life to the Lord. Pause.
Uttering God's praise I have become happy.
The supreme Lord is the Perfect Pardoner.
Showing His mercy He has yoked me, his slave, to His service.
Ridding me of the pain of birth and death the Lord has blended me with Himself.
The sublime deed and faith and real gnosis is this,
that one utters God's Name in the society of saints.
The Lord's feet are the boat to cross the world-ocean.
My Lord, the inner-knower, is the Cause of causes.
Showering His benediction the Lord has saved me.
The five hideous demons have hastened away
O mortal, lose not thy life in gamble ever.
The Creator-Lord has taken the side of Nanak.
Gond 5th Guru.
God, in His mercy has blessed me with peace and pleasure.
The Guru-God has saved His child.
God, the Lord of the world is Kind and Compassionate.
he forgives all the mortals and other creatures.
O my Lord, merciful to the meek, I have sought Thy refuge.
Meditating on Thee, O my Supreme Lord, ever blissful am I. Pause.
None else is like the Merciful Master.
He is contained in all the hearts and all the things.
He embellishes His slave both here and hereafter.
To purify the sinners is Thy daily routine, O Lord.
Meditation of the Lord is the cure-all of the myriads of maladies.
My charm and spell is the remembrance of the Illustrious Lord.
Dwelling on the Lord, ills and woes are annulled;
And the man is blessed with all his heart desired boons.
The Merciful Master is all-powerful to do all the deeds.
In the Lord's supreme meditation, are all the treasures.
The Lord Himself has granted mercy to Nanak,
and for ever and ever, he meditates on the Unique Master.
Gond 5th Guru.
Ponder thou over the Lord God's name, O my friend.
Thus shall thy mind become immaculate.
All the calamity of thy mind and body shall be eradicated,
and all thy distress shall be dispelled.
Celebrating the Lord's praise, man swims across the world-ocean,
and by great good destiny he attains to the Infinite Lord. Pause.
The man, who hymns the Lord's praise,
him the myrmidon of death can touch not.
In this world, approved is the advent of him,
who through the Guru, realises his Master.
By saints grace, he chants God's glory,
and his lust, wrath and madness are eradicated.
he deems the Auspicious Lord ever-present.
Such is the perfect instruction, which the Perfect Guru imparts.
He earn the treasure of the Lord's riches.
Meeting with the True Guru, all his affairs are adjusted.
He is awakened with the love of God's Name,
and with the Lord's feet his soul is attached, O Nanak.
Gond 5th Guru.
God's feet are the ship to cross the dreadful world-ocean.
Remembering the Name, mortal dies not again.
Uttering the Lord's praise one treads not the Yama's path.
The meditation of the Supreme slays the five demons.
I have entered Thine sanctuary, O my perfect Lord.
Lend Thou Thy helping hand to Thine mortal, O Lord. Pause.
The Simirtis, the Shastras, the Vedas and the Puranas,
dilate upon the supreme Lord.
The Yogis, the celibates, the vegetarians and the hermits,
can find not the limit of the imperishable Lord.
Shiva and the Gods bewail and bemoan,
but they know not even an iota of Invisible and Inscrutable Lord.
He whom the Lord Himself blesses with His amorous adoration,
is rare, indeed rare in this world.
I am virtueless and have no virtue, O Lord!
All the treasures are in Thine gracious glance.
Meek Nanak desires to serve Thee, O Lord.
In thine mercy, bless Thou me with this boon, O my Great God.
Gond 5th Guru.
I dash to the ground, the one cursed by the saint.
The slanderer of the saint, I throw down from the sky.
The saint I keep close to my soul.
Instantaneously and forthwith, emancipate I, the saint
He alone is the saint, who is pleasing to the Lord.
The Lord's saint has put one task of His meditation. Pause.
The Lord shields the saint with His Hand.
Day and night, He abides with His saint.
With every breath He cherishes His saint.
From the saints' enemy, He snatches the empire.
Let no one slander the saint,
For who slanders he is destroyed.
He, whom the Creator Lord saves,
the whole world can harm him not, however much it may prate.
I have come to cherish faith in my Lord.
My soul and body are all His capital.
This belief has sprung up in the mind of Nanak,
that the egocentrics lose and the Guru-wards ever win.
Gond 5th Guru.
The Immaculate Name of the Lord is the ambrosial water.
By uttering It with the tongue, the sins are washed of. Pause.
The Lord abides amongst all.
It is the Lord, who illumines all the hearts.
Uttering the Lord's Name, man falls not into hell.
Through the Lord's service, all the fruits are obtained.
Within my mind is the Lord's mainstay.
The Lord is the ship to cross the world-ocean.
Uttering the Lord's Name, death's courier runs and hastens away.
The Lord breaks the teeth of mammon, the wizard.
The Lord is ever, ever the Pardoner.
The Lord blesses me with peace and pleasure.
The Lord manifests His slave's glory.
The Lord is the mother and father of His saint.
The Lord Master ever remains with His saint.
Over and over again, I hymn the Lord's praise.
Meeting with the Guru, I have attained to the Incomprehensible Thing.
Nanak, the slave, has grasped the refuge of the Lord.
Gond 5th Guru.
He, whom the Protector protects,
his side the Formless Lord takes. Pause.
Fire touches him not in his mother's womb.
Lust, wrath, avarice and worldly love affect him not.
In the society of saints, he contemplates the Formless Lord.
Dust is thrown in the face of his slanderer.
The spell of the Lord's Name is His slave's armour.
The demons and miscreants touch him not.
Who-so-ever indulges in ego; he is wasted away.
The Lord is the prop of His humble slave.
He, who enters into the refuge of God, the King;
the Lord saves that slave, hugging him to His bosom.
He who takes much pride;
in an instant he is made dust with the dust.
He, the True Lord is and shall also be.
Ever and ever I am a sacrifice unto Him.
His slaves, the Lord mercifully saves.
The Lord is the support of Nanak's very life.
Gond 5th Guru.
Wondrous and greatly unequalled is the description,
of beauty of the Supreme Soul and Glorious God. Pause.
He is not old, nor is He young.
He has no sorrow, nor is He caught in the death's noose.
He neither perishes, nor departs He.
In the beginning and from commencement of ages, He is contained everywhere.
He feels not heat, nor feels he cold.
He has no enemy, nor has He any friend.
He feels not joy, nor feels He sorrow.
Everything belongs to Him and He is potent to do everything.
He has no father, nor has He any mother.
He is yonder of the yond and has ever been.
By vice and virtue, He is affected not.
Within all the hearts, He is ever awake.
He created three qualities and one mammon.
The great mammon is His shadow.
He is Undeceivable, Impenetrable, Inscrutable and Merciful.
He is Merciful to the meek and ever compassionate.
His condition and measure cannot at all, be known.
Nanak is a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto, Him.
Gond 5th Guru.
Unto the saints, I am a sacrifice.
Associating with the saints, I sing the Lord's praise.
By saints' grace, all the sins are dispelled.
The very fortunate ones seek the saints' refuge.
Contemplating the Lord, no obstacle befalls the man.
By Guru's grace, the mortal meditates on his Lord. Pause.
When the Transcendent Lord showers mercy,
He makes man the dust of the saints feet.
Lust and wrath then leave this body of his,
and Lord, the Jewel come to abide in his mind.
Fruitful and approved is the life of him,
who deems the Supreme Lord to be near him.
He who is yoked to the Lord's loving adoration and praise,
Awakens from the slumber of many births.
The Lord's Lotus-feet are the prop of His slave.
To utter the world-Lord's praise is the true trade.
My Master, fulfil Thou the desire of Thy slave.
Nanak finds peace in the dust of the saints feet.
Rag Gond Ashtpadis 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Make thou obeisance onto thy Perfect Guru-God.
Profitable is His vision and fruitful His service.
He is the Inner-knower Creator-Lord.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, he remains imbued with the Love of the Lord's Name.
The Guru is the Master of the Universe and Guru, The cherisher of the world.
The Guru is the saviour of his servant. Pause.
He satisfies the Kings, bankers and the nobles the Arrogant villains.
The slanderer's mouth, he afflicts with disease.
All the men acclaim the Guru's victory.
Within the saints mind is the supreme bliss.
The saints contemplate the fortunate Divine Guru.
The faces of his associates become exonerated.
The faces of his associates become exonerated.
The slanderers lose all the places of refuge.
With every breath of his, the Lord's slave ever care-free.
He the Great Supreme Lord is ever care-free.
Seeking whose protection all the fears are eradicated.
Smashing all the slanderers, the Lord fells them to the ground.
Let no one slander the saints.
He who calumniates them, becomes miserable.
The whole day long, the Lord's slave remember Him alone.
The Yama draws not near him.
God's slave is uninimical and the slanderer is egotistical?
The saint thinks well of all and the calumniator of evil.
The Guru's Sikh ponders over true Guru alone.
The saints are saved and the slanderer is cast into the hell.
Hearken, O my dear friend and intimate.
These words prove to be true in the Lord's court.
As he sows, so does reap he.
The proud person is assuredly uprooted.
Of the supportless thou art the only support, O my True Guru.
In thy mercy, save thou the honour of thy slave.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto the Guru,
remembering whom my honour is saved.
Rag Gond. The hymns of the saints. Kabir Ji.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Meeting with a pious person, have thou some conversation with him.
But meeting with an impious person, remain thou mum.
O Father, If I speak, what words should I utter?
The such words, by which I may remain immersed in the Lord's Name. Pause.
Conversing with the saints, one becomes philanthropist.
To talk to a fool is to prate in vain.
By talking and speaking with the fools, the sin in one increases.
If I speak not, what can the wretch do me?
Says Kabir, an empty pitcher makes noise.
But that, which is full, gives not any sound ever.
Gond.
When a man dies, he is of no avail to any man.
But when a beast dies, it serves ten purposes.
What do I know regarding the state of my destiny,
what can I know, O my father?. Pause.
Man's bones burn like the log of wood.
His hair burn like the bundle of grass.
Says Kabir, then alone does the man awake,
when the club of death strikes his head.
Gond.
The Lord is in the Sky. the Lord is in the earth beneath and in the four directions, the Lord abides.
The Sublime one is ever the root of bliss. Even when the body perishes, the Lord perishes not.
I am saddened by this thought,
whence this soul comes and whither it goes. Pause.
Uniting the five elements the body is formed but whence were the five elements created?
Thou sayest, that the soul is bound by its deeds but who has given life to the deeds?
The body is contained in God and God is in the body. He, the Lord, abides within all.
Says Kabir, I shall abandon not the Lord's Name, come what may naturally come.
Rag Gond. Hymns of Kabir Ji.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace he is obtained.
They tied my arms, made me like a ball and threw me before an elephant.
Its driver struck the goad on the infuriated elephant's head.
The elephant runs away and cries,
I am a sacrifice into this Image of God.
Says Kabir "O my Lord, Thou art my strength ".
The Qazi shouts at the driver "Drive on the elephant". Pause.
O driver, I shall have thee cut into pieces.
Give him a blow and drive him on.
The elephant moves not and fixes his attention on the Lord.
Within his mind abides the Auspicious Lord.

that making him into a bundle, you have thrown him before an elephant", say the men.
Lifting up the bundle, the elephant makes obeisance unto it.
Even then the blind Qazi could comprehend it not.
Three times he carried out the test.
Even then his hard heart was not satisfied.
Says Kabir The Lord of the world is my Protector.
His slave's soul abides in the fourth state.
Gond.
It is neither man, nor it is demigod.
It is neither called a celibate, not the worshipper of Shiva.
Neither it is a Yogi, nor a renouncer.
Neither it has mother, nor is it any one's son.
Then who is it, that abides in this body temple?
Its limit no one can ever find. Pause.
Neither it is a house-holder, nor an anchoret.
Neither it is a king, nor a mumper.
It has no body, nor a particle of blood in it.
Neither it is Brahman, nor it is a Khatri.
It is not an ascetic, nor is it called a Sheikh.
Neither it lives, nor it is seen to die.
If some one weeps over its death;
whosoever weeps, he loses his honour.
By Guru's grace, I have found the way.
My birth and death have both been erased.
Says Kabir, this soul is the Lord's offspring.
It is stable like the ink, which can be erased not from the paper.
Gond.
The threads are broken, and the size has run short.
The reeds shine over the door.
The poor brushes have gone to pieces.
On this lad's head, death has alighted.
This lad has lost all his wealth.
The coming and going of his associates has greatly tormented me. Pause.
He has given up the talk of his beam and shuttle.
With the Lord's Name, his soul is imbued.
His daughter and sons have nothing to eat.
The shaven saints night and day go crammed.
One or two are in the house and one or two on the way.
We sleep on the floor and they on the cots.
They caress their heads and carry books in their waist-bands.
We get parched grams and they the loaves.
The shaven hermits and this lad have become all one.
These shaven ones are the support of the drowning.
Hearken, O blind and guideless Loi.
Kabir has hastened to the protection of these shaven saints.
Gond.
When the husband dies, then his wife weeps not.
Some one else becomes her protector.
When this care-taker dies,
he falls into the hell hereafter, for the sexual pleasure enjoyed here.
Mammon alone is dear to the world.
Of all the sentient beings, she is the wife. Pause.
With necklace round her neck, mammon looks beauteous.
She is as poison to the saint, but seeing her the world blooms.
Adorning herself, she sits like a prostitute.
Accursed of the saints, the wretch wanders about.
She runs after and pursues the saints.
She fears being beaten by the saints, who are recipients of the Guru's grace.
She is the body and very life of an apostate.
To me she seems to be my blood-thirsty witch.
I am well-acquainted with her secrets now,
when becoming merciful my Guru-God has met me.
Says Kabir, I have now turned her out.
She has clung herself to the skirt of world.
Gond.
He, in whose house is not the glory of wealth,
the guest come and depart hungry therefrom.
Within his mind there is no contentment.
Without his bride, the wealth, he is afflicted with pain.
Hail unto mammon, that even the very pious persons,
penitents and the great sages are astrayed by it. Pause.
Mammon is the miser's daughter.
Forsaking the Lord's slave, she sloops with the world.
Standing art the saints' door, she says,

The bride is exceedingly beauteous.
Her ankle-ornaments tinkle on her feet.
So Long as man is alive, till then she remains attached with him.
When the life is extinct, she quickly gets up and departs bare-footed.
Mammon has conquered three worlds.
The eighteen Puranas and the places of Pilgrimage love her as well.
She has pierced the hearts of Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva.
She has destroyed the great lords of earth and kings.
Mammon has no this or that shore.
She is in collusion with the five evil passions, who are mercurial like Narad.
When the earthen vessels of the five evil passions burst,
then says Kabir, man is delivered by the Guru's grace.
Gond.
As the house stays not, if the beams be removed from within it,
so without the Lord's Name how can one ferry across?
As without pitcher the water is held not,
similarly without the saint, man departs in a wretched plight.
Burn him who remembers not the Lord,
and whose mind remains absorbed in his body field. Pause.
As without a plough-man, land is not sown,
as beads can not be strung without a thread and a sans-loop,,
and a knot can not be fastened without twisting,
without the saints' grace, man departs unemancipated.
As without mother and father, there can be no child,
as the clothes can not be washed without water,
and one can not be a rider without a horse,
so without the saint's grace one can not reach the Lord's court.
As without music there can be no dancing,
so rejected by the Spouse, the unchaste bride is dishonoured.
Says Kabir, do thou but one thing,
become thou resigned to Guru's will, thus thou shalt not die again.
Gond.
He alone is a bawd, who chastens his mind.
If man disciplines his mind, then escapes he from the death's courier.
One who by beating and thrashing his mind applies to it the touch-stone of the Lord's love,
that pander obtains perfect salvation.
In this world, whom do you call a procurer?
In everything that is spoken, discrimination ought to be used. Pause.
he alone is the dancer who dances with his mind.
The Lord is satisfied not with falsehood, but is pleased through truth alone.
With this soul of his, the dancer should beat time before the Lord.
Of such a dancer's soul, the Lord Himself is the Preserver.
He alone is a street-dancer, who cleanses his body street,
and instructs his five evil passions.
He who embraces the devotional service of the Lord of nine continents,
that buffoon I accept as my Guru.
A thief is he, who harbours not envy,
and who with the effort of his sense-organs utters the Lord's Name.
Says Kabir, I have so realised the qualities that,
very beauteous and wise is my Guru, God.
Gond.
Auspicious is the Lord and auspicious the Divine Guru.
Blessed is the Corn etc, by which the heart-lotus of the hungry blooms.
Hail unto those saints, who realise thus.
With them meets the Lord, the sustainer of the world.
From The Primal Lord wells up corn etc.
Then alone can the Name be repeated, if the mortal tastes the relish of corn. Pause.
Contemplate thou the Lord's Name and think of his corn.
With water sublime becomes the colour (taste) of the corn.
The man, who abstains from corn,
he loses his honour in the three worlds.
She, who abandons corn, really practises hypocrisy.
She is neither the happy bride nor a window.
They who proclaim in the world that they live on milk alone,
secretly eat a whole two seers of eatables.
Without corn, time passes not in peace.
Abandoning corn, the Lord is met not.
Says Kabir, thus have I realised, that blest is the corn etc.
by which my mind is propitiated with the Lord.
Rag Gond, Hymns of Namdev ji.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The performance of horse-sacrifice feast,
Giving of one's weight, in gold as alms,
and an ablution at praying.
Even these equal not the Hymning of the praise of the Lord's Name.
O slothful man, meditate thou on the Omnipresent Lords. Pause.
To offer rice-balls at Gaya,
to live on the bank of Asi rivulet near Kashi,
to recite the four Vedas by heart,
to practice all religious rites,
to restrain passions with the Guru given gnosis,
to live by performing six religious rituals,
and to dilate upon the discourses of Shiva and Parbati his wife.
O man, leave and forsake the all these different occupations.
Deliberate and meditate thou on the Lord of the Universe.
Contemplating Him, O Nama, thou shalt swim across the dreadful world-ocean.
Gond.
As the deer follows the sound of huntsman's bell,
and gives up its own life, but ceases not to think of that;
in the same and likewise manner I see my Lord.
Forsaking the Lord, I turn not my mind to another. Pause.
As the fisherman gazes on the fish.
As the goldsmith steel gold while fashioning it.
As the lustful man gazes on another's woman,
and as the gambler marks the throwing of shell.
Similarly wherever Namdev sees, he perceives the Lord there.
Namdev ever meditates upon the Lord's feet.
Gond.
Float me over, O Lord, float me over.
I am an unskillful man and know not how to swim O God, my dear Father, give Thou, me Thine arm. Pause.
The True Guru has granted me such an understanding, that from a man, I have becomes a deity in a trice.
I have obtained such a medicine, by which though begotten by man, I have conquered heaven.
Where Thou hast placed Dhru and Narad, there, O my Master, place Thou me.
With the support of Thy Name, Good many people have been saved. This is Nama's own personal view.
Gond.
I am infested with restlessness.
Without her calf, the cow is lonely.
Without water a fish writhes.
So is poor Namdev without the Lord's Name. Pause.
As the cow's calf, when untethered,
suckles her teats and drinks the milk.
Similarly, Namdev has obtained the Lord.
Meeting the Guru, I have seen the unseen Lord.
As man loves another's woman for the sake of fornication,
so does Nama bear love to God, the Enemy of ego.
As man's body burns in the bright sunshine,
so does poor Nama burns without the Name.
Gond, Hymns of Namdev ji.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Uttering the Lord's Name, all the doubts are dispelled.
The meditation of God's Name is the most sublime religion.
Uttering the Name of God, caste and lineage are effaced.
He, the Lord is the staff of the blind-man.
Unto God is my salutations and unto God my obeisance.
By repeating God's Name death tortures Not the Mortal. Pause.
God took the life of Harnakhash,
and made for Ajmal's place in heaven.
Teaching a parrot to utter the Lord's Name, the prostitute was saved.
That God is the apple of mine eyes.
Meditating on the Lord God, Putna was saved,
who was the destroyer of children and full of deceit.
Contemplating the Lord, Daropadi, the daughter of Daropad was emancipated.
Gautam's wife Ahilia, though turned into a stone was also saved.
The Lord who destroyed Kesi and Kans,
gave the gift of eternal life to kali, the serpent.
Prays Nama, such is my God,
by remembering whom dread and distress are dispelled.
Gond.
He who runs after sprite Bhairav and goddess Sitla,
he rides a donkey and scatters dust.
I take to the name of the One Lord alone.
I have given away all other goods in exchange for Him. Pause
The man, who uttering the Name of Shiva and worships him;
he rides on ox beats the tambourine.
He who adores Mahanmai,
is born as a woman instead of man.
Thou art called the primal goddess,
at the time of granting salvation, where did you hide thyself.
Under the Guru instruction, O my friend Hold fast thou fast to the Lord's Name.
Prays Namdev so says the Geeta as well
Bilawal Gond.
Today I, Nama, have seen my Lord, so now I give instructions to the fool. Pause.
O Pandit, thy Gayatri used to graze on the field of a peasant Lodha by Name
Taking a stick, the peasant broke her leg and since then the walks lame.
O Pandit, I had seen thy great god Shiva, going along, riding a white bullock.
In the storekeeper's house a banquet for him was prepared an d he killed his son.
O Pandit, I had also seen coming along thy Ram Chandar,
having Lost his wife, he waged a war with Rawan
The Hindu is blind and the Muslim is one-eyed.
The Lord divine is the wiser of the two.
The Hindu worships at the temple and the Muslim at the mosquito.
Nama services that Lord, who has neither a temple, nor a mosque.
Rag Gond, Hymns of Ravidas Ji.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Meditate thou on thy God, the Dispenser of salvation, O man.
Without God, the Emancipator, thy body shalt be reduced to ashes.
He the Lord is the Bestower of salvation.
That Lord is my Father and mother.
Living remember thou the Lord and remembering thou the Lord, whilst dying.
His slave is ever in bliss. Pause.
The Lord Master is my very life.
Contemplating the Lord, thy forehead shall bear the in sign of approval.
The renouncer serves Master.
I, the powerless one, have found that Emancipator as my wealth.
When the one Deliverer does me a favour,
then, what can the world do unto me?
Effacing my caste, I have become the Lord's courtier.
Thou, O Lord, art Omnipotent to save the mortals in the ages.
The divine knowledge has welled up and I am knowledge enlightened.
The Lord has mercifully made this worm as His slave.
Says Ravidas, my desire has now been quenched.
I contemplate my Lord and perform His service.
Gond.
If he bathes at sixty-eight place of pilgrimage,
If he worships the twelve shivlingam stones,
and if he dedicates a well and if he dedicates a well and a tank,
but if he slanders the saints then all in vain.
How can the saints' slanderer be ever saved?
Know thou for certain, that he shall fall into hell. Pause.
If he bathes at Kurukashetar at the time of eclipse,
if he makes an offering of his wife with decorations,
and hears with his ears all the Simirtis,
but if he practises slander, they are of no avail.
If he gives many feasts to the needy,
makes gifts of land and buildings for public use,
and neglecting his own arranges other's affairs,
but if he practices slander, he wanders in many existences.
O people, why do you practise slander?
The hollowness of the slanderer is so exposed.
I have carefully considered the calumniator's destiny.
Says Ravidas, he is a sinner, and goes to hell.
Ramkali 1st Guru. Chaupadas
There is but one God. True is His Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His Form. He is without fear, sans enmity, unborn and self-illumined. By Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Some read the Vedas, which are written in Sanskrit language and some read the Puranas.
Some utter the Name on their rosaries and in it their attention is fixed.
I know nothing of now and then but recognise Thy One Name alone, O Lord.
I Know not what my condition shall be, O Lord.
I am unwise and ignorant, O Lord. I have sought Thy protection. Show Thou mercy unto me and honour. Pause.
At times, the mind soars high up and at times it falls to the nether regions.
The greedy mind remains not steady and searches for wealth etc. in all the four directions.
With death writ in his destiny, the mortal comes into the world, yet he amasses riches for long life.
I see that some have already departed and the burning fire of death is approaching me as well. O Lord.
No one has a friend, no one has a brother, none has a father and none a mother.
Prays Nanak, if Thou blesseth me with Thy Name, O Lord, it shall be my succourer in the end.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
Thine Light, O Lord, is pervading all.
Wherever I see, there I see the Man Lion, my Lord.
Rid Thou me, O Lord, of the desire to live.
My mind is entangled in the blind well of worldly valuables. How can I ferry across, O Master?. Pause.
They, within whom and within whose heart, the Lord abides; they see Him without as well.
The Lord ever takes care of them, and always thinks of them in His mind.
Himself the Lord is near and Himself far.
He Himself is fulfilling all.
Meeting with the True Guru, the darkness is dispelled.
Wherever I see, I see the Lord pervading there.
Within me is doubt; without, I am surrounded by mammon which hits me in the eyes, like an arrow.
Prays Nanak, become thou the slave of the Lord's slaves, O mortal, otherwise thou shalt be greatly distressed.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
Which is said to be the court, within which Thou sittest, O Lord. From amongst all the courts, who can see that court?
Let some one come and tell me of the court, for the sight of which I go about sadly.
In what way can I ferry across the world-ocean?
I can die not, whilst alive. Pause.
Pain is the door filled with the two shutters of hope anxiety, and wrath is the guardsman.
The water of worldly valuables is the moat. Within this water, man has built a house. After overcoming such difficulties, man sees the Lord, sitting in the seat of truth.
How many Names hast Thou, O Lord. I know not their end. Equal to Thee there is not another.
Vociferate thou not and live within thy very mind. The Lord Himself knows and Himself does all.
As long as there is a desire, so long is there anxiety. How can then one speak of the one speak of the one Lord?
When in the midst of hopes, man remains without hope, then, O Nanak, meets he, the one Lord.
In this way, the world-ocean is crossed.
Like this one remains dead while alive. Pause Second.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
The Lord's meditation and the Guru's instruction, is the music of my horn, which the people hear.
Honour is my bowl for begging, and I long to have the alms of the Lord's Name.
O father! God, the Protector of the Universe, ever remains wakeful.
He alone is Gorakh, who is sustaining the world, and who made no delay in fashioning it. Pause.
Binding together water, air etc. the Lord has placed life in the body and made the great lamps of the moon and the sun.
To die and to live, God has given us the earth; but so many favours of His, we have forgotten.
There are good many adepts, strivers, yogis, wandering saints, spiritual guides and good men.
If I meet them, then shall I utter the Lord's praise and then alone will my mind serve Him.
Pepper and salt remain safe and sound in clarified butter, and the lotus remain safe and sound in clarified butter, and the lotus remains unaffected in water.
What can death do unto them, O slave Nanak, who meet with such saints?
Ramkali 1st Guru.
Says Nanak, hear thou, O Machhinder:
He, who subdues the five demons, wabbles not.
He who practises Yoga in such a way,
saves himself and saves his whole lineage.
He alone is the forsaker who has attained such an understanding.
Day and night, he remains absorbed in profound trance. Pause.
He begs for the devotional service of the Lord and abides in His fear.
He is sated with the invaluable gift of contentment.
Becoming the embodiment of the Lord's meditation, he attains to a seat of equilibrium.
He fixes his mind's attention to the True Name.
Nanak utters the Nectareal-Gurbani.
Hearken thou, O Machhinder, this is the insignia of a detached Yogi.
He, who amidst hope, remains without hope,
assuredly meets with his creator.
Supplicates Nanak, I utter to thee, the secret things
and effect the union of the Guru with his disciple.
He, who partakes of the medicine and food of the Guru's instruction,
comes to possess the knowledge of the six Shashtras.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
With the brushing of wind, my boat, filled with sins, is oscillating and I fear lest it should overturn.
My great Master, I have evidently come to meet Thee. For sure bless Thou me with this greatness
O Guru, my saviour, ferry me across the world-ocean,
confer on me the meditation of the Omnipresent and Imperishable Lord. I am a sacrifice unto thee, O my Guru. Pause.
He alone is an adept, a striver, a yogi and a wandering saint, who contemplates the one Lofty Lord.
They, who receive the Guru's instruction, are emancipated by touching the Lord's feet.
I know not worship, penitence. self-mortification and rituals, but I utter Thine Name, O Lord.
Nanak has met with the Guru God and is emancipated through the True Name.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
Merge thou thy attention in thy Omniscient Lord.
Make thy body into a raft, by which thou shalt cross over.
Within thee is the fire of desire. Keep thou that in cheek.
Such a lamp shall untiringly burn day and night.
Float thou such a lamp on the water.
This is the Lamp, by which thou shalt procure all knowledge. Pause.
The Lord's comprehension is the good clay.
He, the Lord, accepts the lamp made of that clay.
Make good acts thy wheel and fashion thy lamp on it.
In this world and the world beyond, this lamp shall stand by thee.
When that Lord Himself showers His benediction,
only then does some rare one understand Him through the Guru.
In his mind, this lamp becomes permanent.
It is not destroyed by water and extinguished by wind.
Such a lamp shall ferry thee across the water.
It shakes not in the wind, not it is put out.
With this light, Lord's throne is seen.
Khatris, Brahmans, Sudras or Vaishyas,
find not its worth by thousands of calculations.
If any of them lights such a lamp,
then he, O Nanak, is emancipated.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
To put faith in thy Name, O my Lord, is the true obeisance, unto thee.
By making an offering of truth, the mortal obtains a seat to sit on.
If man truly and resignedly prays,
then the Lord hears him and calling him in, seats him close to Himself.
O Nanak, no one returns empty-handed form there,
such is the rue Lord and His court. Pause.
The gift of Thy grace, O my Master, is the treasure that I seek to have.
Bless Thou me, the alms-man, with it. This alone is my earnest ambition.
The Lord's love then comes and pours into the heart-vessel of the beggar.
This is the value, Thou settlest on Thy mumper, O Primal Being.
He who has created all this, He alone does everything, which happens.
His worth, He Himself assesses.
By Guru's grace, God the king, becomes manifest unto the man.
Then he neither comes, Nor goes.
People curse the beggarly man, who by begging obtains not honour in the Lord's court.
Thou, O my spouse, hast made me utter Thine Divine dialogues, sermons and Thy court's anecdotes.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
The drop of water is in the ocean and the ocean is in the drop of water. Who can understand this and who knows the Lord's way?
Creating the world-play, the Lord Himself beholds it and Himself realises its reality.
Rare is the person, who reflects over such Divine knowledge,
through which he obtains salvation and the supremely sublime status.
In the day is the night and in the night is the day. The same is the way of heat and cold.
His state and extent, none else knows. Without the Guru this understanding is attained not.
In the male is the female and in the female the male. Realise thou this, O God-divine.
In the Lord's love is the spiritual vision and through the spiritual vision the Lord is comprehended. By Guru's grace, this ineffable discourse is known.
In the mind is the Divine Light is the mind, and, the five sensory organs are attuned together like the fellow disciples.
Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto those who enshrine love for the one Name.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
When the Lord God was in mercy,
then was my self-conceit dispelled, from within me.
That attedant is dear to the Lord,
who reflects over the Guru's word.
That God's slave is pleasing to the Lord-God,
who day and night ever performs Lord's devotional service and disregarding honour and dishonour, sings God's praise. Pause.
The unbeaten celestial strain plays and resounds,
and my soul is propitiated with this Lord's elixir.
By the Perfect Guru grace, I am absorbed in truth,
and have obtained my God, the great Primal Being.
The Guru's word is the tenth gate music j, the Vedas and everything.
My soul is imbued with the Lord of universe,
in that are contained all the pilgrim stations, fasting and austerities.
God ferries across the mortals, who meets with Guru.
He, whose self-conceit is stilled; his fear hastens away,
and that slave takes to the Guru's feet.
The great True Guru has dispelled my doubt,
and united me with the Lord, says Nanak.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
The Yogi runs about begging for clothes and food.
He burns with the pang of evil hunger and comes to grief hereafter, as well.
He embraces not the Guru's instruction and through evil-mindedness loses his honour.
By the Guru's teaching some rare person, obtains the Lord's meditation.
The true Yogi's way is that he abides in the Home of bliss.
He, who is sated with alms of the Lord's love, has impartial look and beholds his Master alone. Pause.
The five oxen of the organs of action draw the body's cart.
By the Lord's might, everything honourably goes well.
When the axle of the Master's mainstay breaks, the cart falls head-long.
When the body falls, it is burnt in the heap of timber.
Reflect thou on the Guru's word, O Yogi.
Consider thou pain and pleasure and sorrow and separation the same.
Make thou God's Name and the reflecting on the Gurbani, thy food.
By meditating on the Formless Lord the wall of thy soul shall remain permanent.
Wearing the lion-cloth of poise, thou shall be freed from entanglements.
By Guru's instruction thy lust and wrath shall be destroyed.
Seeking the Guru-God's protection, should be the ear-rings of thy mind.
O Nanak, it is by the Lord's meditation, that man swims across the world-ocean.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Ramkali 3rd Guru.
In the gold-age, everyone spoke the truth.
In every house the Lord's devotional service was performed by the Guru's grace.
In the True age, religion had four legs or feet.
By Guru's grace, a few understand this through the Name.
In all the four ages glory is obtained through the Name.
He who clings to the Name is emancipated but, without the Guru, no one obtains the Name. Pause.
In the sliver-age one leg was removed.
Hypocrisy became prevalent and man deemed the Lord far.
By Guru's grace, obtaining Divine comprehension,,
one did know the Lord and enshrining the Name in his mind acquired peace.
In the Brass-age, duality and double-mindedness arose.
Straying in doubt, men thought the Creator and creation separate.
In Dwapar-age, religion was left with only two feet.
If he turns Guru-ward, then the Name is firmly implanted in his mind.
In the iron-age, religion was left with one power alone.
It walks on one foot and the love of mammon has increased.
Love of wealth produces excessive darkness.
If man meets the True Guru, he emancipates him through the Name.
In all the ages, there is only the on True Lord.
Amongst all, is the True One. There is not another.
Praising True Lord, true peace is procured.
Rare is the person, who utter the Name, through the Guru.
In all the ages, the Name is the most sublime.
By Guru's grace, hardly any one understands this thing.
He, who meditates on the Lord's Name, is the saintly person.
Nanak, in every age, the mortal obtains greatness through the Lord's Name.
Ramkali 4th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
If the fortunate person's destiny be great, then meditates he on the Lord's Name alone is he merged.
He contemplates the Name, attains bliss form the Name and in the Lord's Name alone is he merged.
Through the Guru, O mortal, ever embrace thou the Lord's meditation.
By Guru's instruction thy mind shall be illumined, thou shalt be attuned to the Lord and shalt merge in the Lord-Master's Name. Pause.
Human body is a great ocean which is fully filled with diamonds, emeralds, rubies and gems.
He, who has supreme good luck recorded on his brow, excavates and mines them out, under Guru's instruction.
God's Name is the emerald, jewel and ruby. Mining it out, the Guru has exhibited it on the palm of the hand.
The unfortunate infidel attains not the Name which is worth lakhs and lies hidden behind the screen of straw.
If such destiny be pre-recorded on man's brow, then the True Guru yokes him to his service.
Nanak, then obtains he the pearl and gem of the Name. Blest, blest is the one, who by Guru's instruction, meets with his God.
Ramkali 4th Guru.
Meeting with the Lord's slaves, man is enraptured. They preach God's good gospel.
Associating with the society of saints, the filth of evil-mindedness is all eradicated and the mortal is blessed with sublime understanding.
O Lord's man, utter thou the Lord's Name, under the Guru's guidance.
Who-so-ever hears, utters and contemplates the Lord's Name he is embellished and emancipated. Pause.
If supreme good destiny is recorded on the forehead the Lord makes man meet His slaves (Saints).
My Master! mercifully bless me with the vision of Thine saints, that I be rid of all poverty and pain.
Good are the God's men and the Lord's slaves, but the illdestined, love them not.
The more the lofty slaves utter the Lord's praise, the more the slanderous persons sting them.
Accursed, accursed are the traducers, who like not the saints, the friends and comrades of God.
They, who like not the Guru's glory, are the black-faced and faithless thieves of God.
Mercifully, mercifully save Thou me, O Sire Master. I, the meek one, have sought Thine protection.
I am thy child and Thou, O Lord, art my Father. Forgive Thou, Thy serf Nanak and blend him with Thyself.
Ramkali 4th Guru.
Sublime are the saints, the friends of God Over them is the protecting hand of the Lord.
The Guru-wards are the saints and they are pleasing to the Lord. Them He mercifully merges with Himself.
My Lord, my soul Longs to meet with the God's slaves.
Immortalising, immortalising, is the Lord's sweet Nectar. Meeting with the saints, man quaffs it with his mouth. Pause.
Sublime are the pious persons, the men of God. Associating with them, the mortal obtains the sublime status.
I am the hand-maiden of the slaves of the slaves of God and my Lord is pleased with me.
The servant-man serves his Lord. Very fortunate is he, who within his mind, heart and body, enshrines affection for his Lord.
He, who without loving the Lord talks very boastfully; he talks falsehood and reaps the false reward.
O Beneficent Lord, the Life of the World, take Thou pity on me and make me fall on the feet of Thy saints.
O Nanak, I cut and sever my head and place it on the path, so that the saint may comfortably walk thereon.
Ramkali 4th Guru.
If I have very great good destiny I shall meet with the Lord's slave sans delay.
God's slaves are the vat and tank of sublime Nectar. By great good destiny man bathes therein.
O Lord, apply me to the service of the God's slave.
I draw water for the saints, fan them grind their corn and rub and shampoo their feet and apply their dust to my face. Pause.
Very great and very lofty are the God's saints, who make man meet the True Guru's society.
No one is as great as the True Guru. Meeting with the True Guru. the Lord is meditated upon.
They, who seek the True Guru's refuge, obtain God and my Lord saves their honour.
Some come for their own objects and sit before the Guru in contemplative mood, like the crane.
Associating with the groveling like crane and crow, man puts his mouth to the poisonous carcass.
My Lord, unite, unite me with the society of saints I shall become a swan.
Ramkali 4th Guru.
My True Guru, mercifully unite me with the Lord. God, the King, is the friend of my life-breath.
Becoming a hand-maid, I repair to the feet of the Guru, who has shown to me the path and way to my God Lord.
My Master, the Lord-God's Name is pleasing to my mind.
Without God, I have no other friend. The Lord alone is my father, mother and associate. Pause.
Without my beloved, I can live not even for an instant. Sans seeing Him, I die, O my mother.
Blessed, blessed is my great destiny, that I have sought, the Guru's protection and meeting with the Guru, have seen the Lord's sight.
Within my mind, I can think not of any other, so, I utter and repeat the Lord's Name alone.
The shameless ones, They wander about without the Name. Their noses are gratingly shorn off.
O my Master, the Life of the World, re-animate Thou me, that I may enshrine Thy Name in my mind.
O my Nanak, perfect is the great Guru. Meeting with the True Guru, contemplate I the Lord's Name.
Ramkali 4th Guru.
Very beneficent is the great personality of the True Guru, meeting with whom the Lord is enshrined in the heart.
The Perfect Guru has pleased me with the spiritual life and I now mediate on the ambrosial Name.
O God, the Lord Master, the Guru has established Thy Name in my heart.
By Guru's grace, I have heard the Divine discourse, which has pleased my mind. Blessed, blessed is my great good destiny. Pause.
In myriads of ways, the thirty-three millions of gods contemplate on the Lord, but His limit and end they can find not.
With lust in the mind, they beg for the damsel and stretching forth their hand, ask for worldly wealth.
He who utters and repeats God's praise, is the highest of the high. So, by Guru's grace, I keep the Lord clasped to my heart.
If man possesses good destiny, then alone remembers he the Lord, who ferries him across the terrible world-ocean.
God is near to His saint and the saint is near to his God. The Lord keeps His saint clasped to His bosom.
The Lord God is the Father and Mother of Nanak. God cherishes me Like His child.
Ram Ramkali 5th Guru.
There is but One True God. By Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Have mercy on me, O Beneficent to the meek and consider not at all my merits and demerits.
How can the dust, be washed? Such is the state of the man, O my Lord.
O my soul, serve thou the True Guru, that thou mayest obtain peace.
Whatever thou desirest, those fruits thou shalt obtain and no calamity shall befall thee again. Pause.
God creates and adorns the earthen vessels and within them diffuses His Light.
As is the pre-destined writ of the creator, so are the deeds we do.
Man deems his soul and body to be all his own and this is the cause of his coming and going.
He, who has blessed him with these, Him he remembers not. The blind man is entangled in their love.
He who realises that Lord, who made him, reaches the Lord's peerless palace.
O Lord! Nanak Thy slave meditates on Thee and hymns Thine praise.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Lie thou down beneath the feet that thou mayest rise up. Thus serve thou thy Lord.
Deem thou all the men above thee, then shalt thou obtain peace in the Lord's court.
O saints, recite to me such gospel of God,
and the word of the supreme Guru, uttering which, even for an instant, the gods are rendered immaculate and thy godly-men pure. Pause.
Shed thy fraud, abide in the Lord's place and call no one false.
Meet with the True Guru and be blessed with the nine treasures. In this way shalt thou find out the reality.
O brother, through the Guru's grace, still thy doubt, enshrine love for the Lord and understand thy ownself.
The Lord is ever present. Deem thou Him near at hand. Why doest thou ill to any one?
Meeting with the True Guru, thy path shall become wide and thou shalt easily meet thy Lord.
Blessed, blessed are the persons, who attain to their God in the Darkage slave Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto them.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Neither coming of wealth pleases, nor its going pains me and this malady clings not to my soul.
Obtaining the Perfect Guru, I am ever in bliss and so my separation from the Lord is all ended.
In this way, I have united my mind with the Lord.
Worldly love, sorrow, ailment and public opinion affect me not and then alone enjoy I the Nectar of the Lord Master God. Pause.
I remain apart from people and am immaculate in heaven, immaculate in this world and immaculate in the neither one.
I am obedient to the Lord, ever enjoy peace and see the meritorious Lord everywhere.
No sensitiveness, no stupefaction, no water, no wind no form and no world is there,
where the True Guru, united with God and where the Imperishable Lord and the Unapproachable Master abide.
My body and soul belong to God and so belongs to God all my riches. What merits of the Lord can count I?
Says Nanak, the Guru has obliterated my my-ness and thy-ness, and like water with water, I am now blended with God.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The Name commodity remains apart from the three qualities. 1st worth the strivers and adepts know not.
In the True Guru's treasury is the cabin of jewels, brimful with the Name-Nectar.
Wondrous is this commodity, which cannot be described,
it is an incomprehensible commodity, O brother. Pause.
Its price cannot at all be assessed. What can anyone say and utter?
By narrating and describing, one can understand it not. He, who sees, realises it.
He, the Creator, alone knows its worth. What can the poor creature know?
His condition and measure He Himself knows. God Himself is the brimful treasure.
Quaffing such immortalising Name-Nectar, my soul remains sated and satiated.
Says Nanak, seeking the True Guru's protection, my desire is fulfilled.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
My Lord has owned me and I have suppressed all my adversaries.
The foes, who have plundered this world, Those foes I have chained.
The True Guru, is my Supreme Lord.
Uttering Thy Name and putting faith in Thee, O Lord, I enjoy the dainties and pleasures of many empires. Pause.
My protector watches over my head and I think not of another.
With the support of Thy Name alone, O Lord, I remain carefree.
Meeting with the Giver of peace, I have become perfect and am deficient in nothing.
I have obtained the sublime quintessence of the supreme status and forsaking it I go no where else.
O my True, Invisible and Infinite Lord, as Thou art, so I can describe Thee not.
O Nanak, my Master, is the immeasurable, Unfathomable and immovable Lord.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Thou art wise, Thou art moveless and Thou art my caste and honour.
Thou are unwavering, and waverest not ever. Then how can I fell anxiety?
Thou alone art my one Unique Lord.
Thou alone art the one King.
By Thine grace, O Lord, I have obtained peace. Pause.
Thou art the sea and I am Thy swan. In Thee are pearls and rubies.
Thou givest and hesitatest not even a little. I eat and am ever happy.
I am Thine child and Thou art my Father. Thou puttest milk into my mouth.
I play and Thou fondlest me in every way. Thou art ever an ocean of excellences.
Thou art Perfect and art filling all. O Perfect Lord, I too am sated in Thy company.
I am blended, blended and shall remain blended with thee, O Lord. Nanak can describe not this state.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Make thine hands the cymbals, thin eyes the kettle-drums and thy for-head the rebeck to harp upon God's goodness.
Chime thou the sweet music of the flute in thine ears and with thy tongue song thou the celestial strain.
Bringing the articles like the anklets, dance thou, O man, with the rhythmical movement of thy hands.
This alone is the dance of the Lord.
The compassionate spectator is beholding all thy make-up and decoration. Pause.
The whole earth is the arena site, over which is stretched the canopy of the sky.
The breath acts as the sole manager and all have sprung up from the watery sperm.
From the five elements, God has created the puppet, to which are attached its acts.
The Lord has lit up the two lamps of the moon and the sun and has placed them in the four corners of the world.
The ten, whore-like sense faculties and the five passions are the singers.
They are dallying separately and all speak different tongues.
In every house there is dancing day and night and in every heart the bugles sound.
Some He makes dance in worldly pursuits, other He whirls round in existences, and still other come dust in coming and going.
Says Nanak, he who meets with the Perfect Guru, dances not again.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The Lord's eulogist imbibes love for the one and sings the melody of but one God.
He abides in the country of One God, shows the way to One God and sees the One Lord pervading all.
He visualises One God, serves only the One Lord, who is known through the Guru.
O praise-worthy, praise, praise-worthy is such an eulogist.
He sings the praise of the Omnipresent Lord Master,
, shedding all the relishes of the worldly pursuits. Pause.
The five virtues, like contentment, he makes his musical instruments and walking in the Lord's Love his seven notes.
The forsaking of pride of his power, makes the note of his musical instrument and places not his foot in the crooked path.
He ties the One. Name to his skirt and enters not the circuit of coming and going ever again.
To shed his sorrows is for him the tinkling of anklets.
To shed his sorrows is for him the tinkling of anklets.
To abide in celestial beatitude is exhibiting his dalliance.
Such a dancer is born not again.
If any one becomes pleasing to his Lord,
out of millions that mortal alone thus sings the Lord's praise.
Says Nanak, I repair to the support of the society of saints.
They sing there the praise of the one Lord alone.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Some call on the Lord, "Ram, Ram" and some "Khuda".
Some serve Him as "Gosain"', and some as "Allah".
He is the cause of causes of causes and is Bountiful.
Some talk of the Extender of mercy and some of the Merciful. Pause.
Some bathe at the Hindus pilgrim pilgrimage to Mecca.
Some perform Hindu worship and some bow their heads in the Muslim fashion.
Some read the Vedas and some the Muslim, religious books.
Some wear blue robes and some white.
One calls himself Muslim and one calls himself Hindu.
One desires the paradise of the Muslims and one the heaven of Hindus.
Says Nanak, he who realises God's will,
knows the secret of the Lord Master.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The breath merges in the air.
In fire, the fire is mingled.
The dust becomes one with dust.
What support the bewailer has to stay stable here?
Oh, who has died, who has died?
Meeting together, reflect over this, O the discerner of God. This is the wonderous thing that has is the wondrous things that has happened. Pause.
None knows what is to happen to him, hereafter.
The bewailer, too, rises up and departs.
With the chains of doubt and worldly love, the mortals are bound.
When the life becomes a dream, the blind man grieves in vain.
This creation, the Creator has created.
It comes and goes subject to the will of the Infinite Lord.
No one dies, nor is one capable of dying.
The soul perishes not. It is imperishable.
What it is thought to be, that it is not.
He who knows this, unto Him I am a sacrifice.
Says Nanak, the Guru has dispelled my doubt.
No one dies, nor any one comes or goes.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
O Man, meditate thou on thy Beloved Lord Master.
Contemplating the Lord's Name, thou shalt remain alive and the great death shall not again devour thee. Pause.
Thou hast come, wandering, wandering, wandering in millions of births.
Through the greatest good destiny. the society of saints is obtained.
Without the Perfect Guru, the mortal is emancipated not.
O man, this is what Nanak says after due deliberation.
Rag Ramkali. 5th Guru.
There is but one True God. By Guru's Grace, He is obtained.
The four Vedas shout, but thou obeyest them not.
The six Shashtras too tell of one thing
The eighteen Puranas combined, speak of One God.
Even then, O Yogi, thou can know not the secret.
The Lord's lyre plays handsomely,
O inebriated Yogi. Pause.
In the first True-age, the town of truth was inhabited.
In the Treta-age, there was some falling off.
In Duapar-age only half the truth remained.
In the Darkage, only one foot remained and then the one Lord was revealed by the Guru.
On one string the beads are strung.
By means of diverse, diverse, diverse, diverse knots, they are kept apart.
The rosary beads are lovingly told in many ways.
When the thread is withdrawn then all the beads are gathered at one place.
Through all the four ages, the Lord has made the one body His dwelling place.
In that difficult place there are several windows.
Searching, searching, when the Yogi comes to the Lord's door,
then, O Nanak, attains he an abode in His mansion.
Thus plays beautifully the lyre of the Lord.
On hearing it, the mind of the Yogi is pleased. Pause Second.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
This body patch is stitched with threads.
With the needle of bones the stitches of muscles are established.
The Lord has built the pillar of watery sperm.
Then, why art thou involved in ego, O Yogi?
Remember thou thy Lord, day and night.
Thy body's patched coat shall last but for two (a few) days. Pause.
Thickly besmearing the body with ashes thou sittest in trance.
Thou art wearing the ear-rings of mine and thine.
Thou asketh for bread and art satiated not.
Forsaking thy Lord, thou feelest not shame in begging others.
Mercurial is thy mind, O Yogi, still thou sittest in trance.
Thou blowest thy horn, but ever feelest sad.
Thou understandest not Gorakh, thy Guru.
O Yogi, thou shalt come and go again and again.
He, to whom the Lord Master, my Guru, is merciful,
on to Him the Guru, the Lord of the world, I offer my prayer,
He whose patched coat is the Name and who wears the dress of the Name;
that Yogi, O slave Nanak, becomes ever stable.
He who in this life thus contemplates on the Lord day and night,
attains to the great Master of universe now. Pause Second.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
He, the Lord, is the Doer and Prompter of deeds.
I see not any other.
Accomplished and Omniscient is my Lord.
Meeting with the supreme Guru I enjoy His Love.
O man, so sweet is the Lord's elixir.
By Guru's grace, some rare one tastes it. Pause.
Immaculate is the light of the Lord's Nectar-Name.
Partaking of it, one becomes immortal and desireless.
The body and soul become cool and the fire is quenched.
Such persons are the embodiment of bliss and are renowned in the world.
What should I offer Thee, O my Lord, when everything is thine?
A hundred thousand times, I am ever a sacrifice unto thee.
Blessing with mind and soul, Thou hast built my bodily frame.
By Guru's grace, Thou hast honoured me, the menial.
Opening the shutters, thou has summoned me to thine presence,
and as Thou art, so Thou hast shown thyself to me.
Says Nanak, the entire screen is torn away,
and I have become Thine and Thou art enshrined within my mind.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
His Servant, the Guru has yoked to his service.
The Name-Nectar, the Guru has poured into his mouth.
The Guru has himself stilled all his anxiety.
Unto that Guru, I am ever a Sacrifice.
The True Guru has arranged my affairs.
By the True Guru's grace, celestial strain resounds within my mind. Pause.
Such is the Lord, whose praise is profound and unfathomable.
He, whom He blesses with contentedness, becomes blissful.
He whose shackles are shattered by Guru, the King,
that man is not cast into existences again.
He, within whom the Lord himself becomes manifest,
Him pain and sorrow touch not.
Gathers he in his skirt the gem and pearl of the Name.
The man swims across with his entire lineage.
Within Him there is no doubt, not double mindedness and duality.
He adores but one Immaculate Lord.
Wherever I see, I see the Merciful Master Himself
Says Nanak, I have met with my Lord, the Home of elixir.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Self-imposed egoism has left my body.
The Lord's will seems dear unto me.
Whatever He does, that seems sweet unto my mind.
Then see I, my Wondrous Lord with these eyes of mine.
O I have become wise and the demon within me has hastened away.
The desire within me is quenched, my worldly love is dispelled and the Perfect Guru has instructed me. Pause.
The Guru has made me cling to the Lord's feet.
The Guru has make me cling to the Lord's feet.
When the mind is totally held in check,
then mortal deems Guru and God as one and the same.
Who-so-ever Thou hast created, O Lord, I am his slave.
My Master abides amidst all.
I have no enemy, nor an adversary.
Locked in embrace like brother, I now walk along with all.
He, whom the Guru-God blesses with peace,
Him pain touches not again.
The Lord Himself cherishes all.
Nanak is imbued with the love of the World-cherisher.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
With thy mouth, thou readest the scriptures with their commentaries.
But the Omnipresent Lord abides not in thy mind.
Thou instructs men to be firm in their faith.
Thou Thyself practisest not what thou preachest.
O learned Pandit, reflect thou over the Vedas,
and banish thy mind's anger, O Pandit. Pause.
In front of thee, thou hast placed the stone-god,
but thy mind wanders in ten directions.
Thou puttest a frontal mark on the stone-god and fallest at its feet.
Thou pleasest the people and actest blindly.
Thou performest six religious rites, spreadst the sitting cloth, and wearest thy lion-cloth.
In the wealthy homes, thou ever readest sacred books.
Thou tellest the rosary and askest for wealth.
In this way none has ever been saved, O friend.
He alone is the scholar, who practises the Guru's instruction.
Mammon of three qualities departs from him.
Within whose Name the four Vedas are fully-contained,
Nanak has sought the protection of that Lord.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Millions of tribulations draw not near him,
the various secular attachments are his handmaidens,
myriads of sins are his water-carriers,
he on whom is the grace of the creator.
He whose helper is the Fortunate Lord,
his various efforts bear fruit. Pause.
What harm can the creature do to him, whom the creator-Lord preserves?
Then even an ant can conquer the whole world.
Infinite is His praise. To what extent can I narrate it?
I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto His feet.
He alone is the performer of worship, penance and contemplation;
he alone is the giver of the various sorts of alms,
and he alone is the approved saint in the Darkage,
whom the Lord blesses with honour.
Joining the society of saints, I am illumined.
I have attained spiritual bliss and my hopes are fulfilled.
The Perfect True Guru has blessed me with faith.
Nanak has become the slave of the Lord's slaves
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Find thou fault with none, O man.
What thou sowest, that alone thou reapest.
By thine deeds, thou hast bound thyself.
Involved in worldly affairs, thou shalt continue coming and going.
The pious persons alone possess such understanding.
Through the hymns of the Perfect Guru, man's mind is illumined. Pause.
The body, riches, wife and other ostentations are false.
The horses and elephants are liable to depart.
Kingdom, worldly love and beauty are all false.
Without the Name, everything is reduced to dust.
The proud persons stray in useless doubt.
O Nothing out of the entire display shall go with the man.
In weal and woe the body is aging.
Thus doing, the life of the mammon-worshipper is passing away.
God's Name is the only Nectar in the Darkage.
This treasure is obtained from the Lord's saint.
Nanak, he on whom the Guru-God is merciful,
he sees the Lord contained amongst all the hearts.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
There in the society of saints are the full sounds of the melody of the five musical instruments.
Without being struck, they play wondrously and marvelously.
There the saints, God's people play with their Lord.
Remaining perfectly detached, the saints contemplate their Supreme Lord.
The congregation of saints is the seat of peace, poise and pleasure.
The galaxy of the saints sit and sing the Lord's praises. There is no malady, sorrow, birth and death there. Pause.
There, only the Lord's Name is meditated upon.
Rare are they, who attain to that seat of rest.
The Lord's love is their food and the singing of His praise their support.
They acquire permanent seat in the Infinite mansion.
From there no one falls, wavers or goes anywhere.
By Guru's grace, a few attain to this mansion.
They are affected not by doubt, dread, worldly love and secular entanglements.
Through the Lord, has no end or limit. He, the Lord, has no end or limit.
He, the Lord, has no end or limit.
He Himself is Unmanifest and Himself manifest.
He, who within his mind enjoys the relish of the God's Name;
his wondrous state can be described not, O Nanak.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Meeting with the society of saints, I have meditated on my Transcendent Lord.
Associating with the saints, my soul has acquired contentment.
My forehead falls at the feet of saints.
Many a time, I make prostration before the saints.
This soul is a sacrifice unto the saints,
clinging to whose refuge, I have attained peace and who have mercifully saved me. Pause.
I wash the feet of the saints and drink that wash.
I live by seeing, seeing the saints' sight.
My mind's hope rests on, the saints.
The saints are my immaculate wealth.
The saints ever screen my sins.
By the grace of saints I am tormented not ever.
The Merciful Master has blessed me with the society of the saints.
The compassionate saints have become my succourer.
My understanding, wisdom and intellect are illuminated,
by the Profound, Unfathomable and Infinite Lord, the treasure of virtues.
The Lord cherishes all the sentient beings.
Nanak is enraptured by seeing the Lord's saints.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Thy home, kingdom and riches are of no avail to thee.
Of no avail are to thee thine mortal and worldly entanglements.
Know that all the dear friends are but a delusion.
The Lord God's Name alone shall go with thee.
Sing thou the Lord's praise, O friend. Remembering God, thy honour shall be saved.
Contemplating God, Death's myrmidon shall touch thee not. Pause.
Without the Lord, vain are all the pursuits.
Gold, silver and riches are but dust.
Uttering the Guru's word thy soul shall be at peace.
Here and hereafter, bright shall be thy face.
All thine forefathers got tired doing worldly tasks.
None of them ever accomplished the mammon's affairs.
Anyone, who utters the Lord God's Name;
all his aspirations are fulfilled.
The Name is the mainstay of God's devoted slaves.
The saints make fruitful their invaluable human life.
Whatever the God's saint does, that the Lord approves.
Slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto him.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Thou amasseth wealth by annoying the people.
It shall not avail thee. It is meant for others only.
Thou practisest pride and acts like a blind man.
Hereafter, thou shalt be bound by the halter of the Death's courier.
Dismiss thou jealousy of others, O fool.
O fool, thou hast to abode here but. for one night.
O thou, who art intoxicated with wealth, shalt soon arise and depart.
Thou art hand and glove with the dream. Pause.
In the age of childhood, the child is blind.
In the hey-day of youth, he is attached to the foul-smelling sins.
In the third stage of life, he amasses wealth.
When he grows old, he leaves everything and departs regretfully.
After a long time, one obtains the human body which is so difficult to obtain.
Without the Name it is reduced to dust.
Is worse than a beast, a demon and an idiot,
the body which knows not Him, who created it.
Heart thou, O Creator, Master of the universe,
cherisher of the world, Merciful to the meek and ever compassionate Lord.
If Thou freest the mortal, then alone can his bonds be broken.
Nanak, the world is blind. O Lord, pardon and unite it with Thee.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
By the union of elements, the body, robe is made.
The ignorant man is engrossed, therewith.
He ever pampers and takes care of it.
At the last moment, the soul arises and departs all alone.
Without the Name, all else is false, O mortal.
All those mortals who are imbued with things, other than Lord's meditation, are defrauded by the worldly valuables. Pause.
Bathing at shrines, the filth departs not.
The rituals and religious rites are all the ostentations of self-conceit.
Pleasing the people, one is emancipated not.
Without the Lord's Name, the screen is shattered not.
Without the Lord's Name, the screen is shattered not.
I have scrutinized all the Shashtras and Simirtis.
He alone utters the Name, whom the Lord Himself makes utter.
He obtains all the fruits and merges in peace.
O my saviour Lord, Thyself save Thou me.
All the comforts are in Thy hand, O Master.
Withersoever Thou yokest me, thither I am yoked, O my Lord.
O Nanak, my Master is the searcher of hearts.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Whatever Thou doest, in that I deem my bliss.
The ignorant mind is gladdened in the society of the saints.
My mind now wabbles not and has become stable.
Receiving truth, it has merged in the True Lord
My pain is past and I am rid of all the ailments.
Associating with the great man, I have, now, accepted the Lord's will, within my mind. Pause.
I am now all pure and all immaculate.
Whatever the Lord enforces that is good.
Wherever He keeps me, that is the abode of emancipation for me.
Whatever He makes me utter, that is His Name alone.
The sixty-eight pilgrim-stations are there where the saints put their feet,
and heaven is there, where they utter the Name.
All the joys are obtained, when the Lord's sight is attained.
Ever, sing I the praise of the Lord God.
The Lord Himself is pervading all the hearts.
Manifest is the glory of the Merciful Master.
The shutters (of the mind) are opened and my doubts have hastened away.
Nanak has met with the Perfect Guru.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Millions of adorations, austerities,,
secular power, wisdom, miracles and angelic insights, dwell in him,
and he enjoys various spectacles, revelments and delicacies,
within whose mind, by Guru's grace, the Name abides even for a moment.
Such is the celebrity of the Lord's Name.
Man can describe not its worth. Pause.
He alone is valiant fortitudinous, perfectly intelligent,
attuned to primordial trance, profound, unfathomable,
and ever emancipated, and his affairs are all adjusted,
within whose mind abides the God Name.
He is blessed with all peace, bliss and disease-free health,
he sees all with an impartial eye and is perfectly detached,
and wabbles not ever and stays stable,
in whose the Lord's Name dwells.
God is merciful to the meek, the sustainer of the world and the Lord of the universe.
Contemplating Him by Guru's grace, worry is worn off.
The Guru has blessed Nanak with the Lord's Name,
and he waits upon the saints and performs the saints' service.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Sing thou the Lord's praise, which is the basis of all the spells.
By it, the shelterless obtains shelter in the world beyond.
Repair thou to the feet of the Perfect Guru,
and having slept for many birth, thou shalt be awakened.
The Lord God's Name, remember thou, O man.
By Guru's grace it shall be enshrined in thy mind and thou shalt swim across the terrible world-ocean. Pause.
Contemplate thou the moveless treasure of the Name, O man,
and then the curtain of mammon shall be rent.
Quaff thou the immortalising Nectar of the Guru's word,
then shall thy soul be rendered immaculate.
Scrutinizing, seeing and searching, I have concluded,
that without the Lord's meditation one is released not.
So, contemplate thou thy God in the society of saints,
and thy mind and body shall be imbued with the Lord's Love.
Forsake thou thy wisdom and great cleverness.
O man, sans the Lord's Name, there is no place of rest.
The Lord Master has taken pity on me.
Nanak has sought the protection of the Lord's Name.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
In the saints' congregation, sport thou with thy Lord Lovingly.
Then, thou shalt meet not with the Death's courier, hereafter.
Likewise thy haughty intellect shall be annulled,
and thou shalt be purged of all thy evil understanding.
Sing thou the praise of the Lord's Name, O Pandit.
The religious ceremonies and thy self-conceit are of no avail. By singing His praise alone, thou shalt go to thy home with pleasure. Pause.
I have earned the profit of the wealth of the Lord's praise.
Singing His praise, all my desires are fulfilled.
My woes have hastened away and weal has entered my home.
By saints' grace, my heart-lotus has bloomed.
He, who is blessed with the gift of the Name jewel,
that man attains to all the treasures.
Obtaining the Perfect One, such a man becomes content,
and then what for should he go abegging again and again?
Hearing the God's gospel, man is rendered pure.
Uttering the Lord's praise with the tongue, one finds the way to salvation.
He alone is approved, who enshrines God in his mind.
The most sublime is such a person, O brother, says Nanak.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Even by grasping with care, mammon remains not in the mortal's grip.
Howsoever man may love it, it goes not with him.
Says Nanak, when man abandons mammon,
then it comes and falls at his feet.
Hear, O saints this immaculate philosophy.
Without the Lord's Name, there is no salvation. Meeting with the Perfect Guru, the mortal is emancipated. Pause.
When some one shows consideration to her (mammon),
then takes she pride on herself
When some one discards her from his mind,
then she serves him like a slave.
Seemingly she pleases but ultimately defrauds.
She remains not confined, at any one place.
She has bewitched good many worlds.
The Lord's slaves cut her into pieces.
He, who asks for it, remains unsatiated.
He who is in love with it, obtains nothing.
He who forsakes it and associates with the galaxy of saints;
by great good destiny he is emancipated, O Nanak.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Behold thou the All-pervading soul amongst all.
The Perfect, Unique Lord is filling all.
Know that the invaluable Name jewel is in thy mind.
Thine commodity, realise thou to be within thyself.
Quaff thou the Lord's Nectar by the saints' grace.
If one has very good luck, then alone he obtains the Lord's Nactar. Without the tongue, how can one know its relish?. Pause.
When does this deaf-man hear the eighteen Puranas and the four Vedas?
Inspite of millions of lights the blind man sees not.
The beast loves grass and remains clung to it.
He, whom the Lord instructs not. In what way can he be caused to understand?
The Omniscient Lord knows everything.
Like warp and woof, He is with His saints.
They, who gladly and joyfully sing their Lord's praise;
the Death's minister draws not near them, O Nanak.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Blessing me with His Name, the Lord has sanctified me.
God's wealth is my capital. Becoming hopeless, therefore, this mammon has left me.
Breaking my bonds, the Lord has Yoked me to His service.
Becoming the Lord God's devotee, I now sing the Master's praise.
The celestial strain now spontaneously resounds.
With love and relish God's slaves sing His praise and are honoured by their Guru-God. Pause.
My primal destiny has dawned,
and after the slumber of many births, I have now awakened.
My aversion to the Lord is gone in the society of the saints,
and my soul and body are imbued with God's love.
The Merciful saviour Lord has saved me.
I have no service, nor arduous toil to my credit.
The Lord has mercifully taken pity on me,
and has pulled me out, when I was sinking in pain.
Hearing, hearing the Lord's praise, joy has sprung up in my mind.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, I sing the God's praise.
By singing the Lord's praise I have obtained the Supreme status.
By Guru's grace, Nanak has enshrined affection for the Lord.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
In exchange for a trinket, one gives up the gem,
He endeavours for that, what he has to leave.
He amasses that, which is a paltry thing,
Bewitched by riches, he walks on the crooked path.
O luckless man, thou feelest not shame.
In thy mind, thou rememberest not God, thy Perfect Transcendent Lord, the Ocean of peace. Pause.
Nectar thou deemest bitter and poison sweet.
O mammon-worshipper, such is thy condition, which I have seen with mine own eyes.
Thou art fond of falsehood, fraud and ego.
If thou hearest the Name, O man thou feelest as if thou art stung by a scorpion.
Thou ever longest for worldly valuable,
with thy mind and mouth, thou utterest not ever the Lord's praise.
Fearless, Formless and Bounteous is the Lord.
O ignorant man, thou contractest not love with Him.
Over the head of all the Kings is God, the True King.
He is the Independent, Perfect Sovereign.
Man remains involved in the intoxication of worldly attachment, doubt and family life.
By Thine grace, O Lord, the mortal is saved, says Nanak.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Night and day invoke I the Lord's Name and,
hereafter, I shall obtain a seat in the Lord's court.
I am ever in bliss and feel no sorrow.
The ailment of ego overtakes me not ever.
O the Lord divine saints search out ye God.
Meditating on thy God, O mortal thou shalt obtain the supreme status and being surprisingly pleased, shalt become the embodiment of the wondrous Lord. Pause.
Counting, measuring and thinking in all the ways, see thou,
O man! that without the Name, none can ferry thee across.
None out of all thine efforts shall be of any avail to thee.
The dreadful world-ocean is crossed through the Lord's love.
By washing the body the mind's filth is removed not;
man is then overtaken by ego and his duality increases.
The man, who partakes of the medicine of the Lord's Name,
His all ailment is eradicated.
O my merciful Supreme Lord, take thou pity on me,
that I may forsake not ever the World-Cherisher from my mind.
Let me be the dust of Thy slave's feet, O Lord,
fulfil Thou Thy slave Nanak's desire.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
O my Perfect great God, I seek Thy protection,
Without Thee, there is not any other.
Thou art the Omnipotent and Omnipresent Transcendent Lord.
He, whose destiny is perfect, alone mediates on Thee.
My Lord, Thy Name is the ship to float across.
My soul has grasped Thine refuge alone. Without Thee, O Lord, I have no other place of rest. Pause.
I live by uttering and repeating Thy Name.
Hereafter I shall find a place in the Lord's court.
My soul is rid of pain and darkness,
my evil intellect is erased and I am absorbed on the Lord's Name.
I have enshrined affection for the Lord's lotus-feet.
Immaculate is the way of life of the Perfect Guru.
My fear has hastened away and the fear-free Lord abides within my mind.
My tongue ever utters the Lord's Nectar-Name.
My halters of million of births are hewed down.
I have obtained the gain and profit of the True wealth of the Lord's Name.
Inexhaustible is this treasure which runs not short, ever.
Nanak, the Lord's devotees look embellished in His court.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
God's Name is the only jewel and ruby.
Through it truth, contentment and gnosis are obtained.
The treasure of peace, pose and compassion,
the Lord entrusts to His slaves.
Such is the treasure of my Lord,
that by eating and expending, it exhausts not. My God has no limit, this or that end. Pause.
The Lord's praise is an invaluable gem.
It is an ocean of bliss and virtues.
The Guru's word is an inestimable wealth.
The key to it is in the hand of the saints.
There, in the cave of primordial trance is the seat of Guru,
where abides the Perfect Unique Lord as well.
There the Lord converses with His devoted saints.
There is no weal and woe, neither birth nor death.
He, whom the Lord Himself mercifully blesses;
obtains the Lord's wealth in the guild of the saints.
Before the Merciful Master alone, Nanak makes supplication.
God is my merchandise and God is my capital-stock.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The Vedas know not God's greatness.
Brahmas can not realise His secrets.
The incarnations know not His limit.
Infinite is God, the Transcendent Lord.
His state, He Himself knows.
Others speak of Him from mere hearsay. Pause.
Shiva knows not the Lord's way,
The gods have grown weary searching for Him.
The goddesses know not His mystery.
Over all is the Unseen Supreme Lord.
His plays, the Lord plays according to His pleasure,
He Himself separates and Himself unites.
Some wander and some He yokes to His novel deeds, He becomes Himself known.
Hear thou the True tale of the saints.
They say only that what they see with their eyes.
He, the Lord, is affected not by virtue and sin.
Nanak's Lord is Himself all in all.
Nanak's Lord is Himself all in all.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
To know Thee, O Lord, I have done no good deed.
I have no wisdom, intelligence and Divine Knowledge.
I possess not meditation, toil, humility and faith.
I know not what meritorious deeds are.
O my Beloved Lord Master!
Without Thee, there is not any other, erring and straying though, I am still Thine, O my Lord. Pause.
I possess not wealth, ingenuity, perfection and Divine Light.
I abide in the village of deadly sins and mental ailments.
O my unique Creator-Lord,
within my mind is the mainstay of Thy Name alone
Within my mind is this consolation, that by hearing, hearing Thy Name, I can live restfully
Thy Name, O Lord, is the Destroyer of sins.
Thou, O Infinite Lord, art the Giver of life-breath.
He alone know thee, whom Thou makest know Thyself.
Whosoever Thou, createst, he rests his hope in Thee, O Lord.
All mediate on Thee, O my Master the Treasure of excellences.
Slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto Thee.
Limitless is my Merciful Master.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The Compassionate Lord is the saviour of all.
Contemplating the Lord, even for a moment, the sins of millions of births are eradicated.
All the beings meditate on God.
The Lord is met, by receiving the Guru's instruction.
My Master is the Bestower of the beings
The Transcendent Lord Master is pervading all, my Lord is contained amongst all the hearts. Pause.
His protection, I have grasped in my mind.
My bonds are done away with.
Within my mind, I invoke God, the Embodiment of supreme bliss,
Joy has welled up in my mind.
God's refuge is the ship to cross the world-ocean.
God's Feet are the embodiment of very life.
God is the support of the life of saints.
He is the highest of the high and infinite.
Sublime is that mind which contemplates the Lord.
He alone obtains such a mind, whom He Himself mercifully blesses with it.
Peace, poise and bliss are obtained through the Lord's Name.
Meeting with the Guru, Nanak invokes the Lord's Name.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Forsake thou thy all cleverness.
Making thy mind the Lord's slave, perform thou His service.
Obliterate thou completely thy self-conceit.
Then shalt thou obtain the fruits, which thy mind desires.
Meeting with thy Guru, remain thou ever wakeful.
Thy hope and aspiration shall be fulfilled, and thou shalt obtain all the treasures from the Guru. Pause.
Let no one deem the Guru distinct from God.
The True Guru is the embodiment of that Immaculate Lord.
Deem him not to be a mere human personality,
then, even if without honour, thou shalt obtain honour.
Depend thou only on thy Guru-God's prop,
and give up all other hopes.
Ask for the treasure of God's Name,
then shalt thou obtain honour in His court.
For the fulfillment of thine objects, utter thou the Guru's hymns.
This is the real essence of the Lord's devotional service.
When the True Guru becomes merciful,
then is the slave Nanak enraptured.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Whatever happens, accept that so good.
Lay aside thou thy self-conceit.
Day and night ever sing thou the Lord's praise.
This is the perfect aim of human life.
O saint, invoke thy God and make merry.
Shed thou thy wisdom and great cleverness and utter the immaculate hymns of the Guru. Pause.
Within thy mind rest thou thy hope in the one Lord.
Remember thou the pure Name of the Lord God.
Bow thou ever to the Guru's feet.
Thus shalt thou swim across thy dreadful world ocean.
The Beneficent Lord is the Giver of all.
He has no end or limit.
He, in whose house are all the treasures,
shall be thy Saviour in the end.
Nanak is blessed with this treasure,
of the Lord God's immaculate Name.
He, who repeats the Name is emancipated.
Nanak, the Name is attained to by God's grace.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Make thou thy invaluable human body fruitful.
Thus thou shalt not go defeated to the Lord's Court,
and in this world and the next one thou shalt obtain honour.
The Lord shall deliver thee at the last moment.
Sing thou the praise of the Pervading God, O man.
Contemplating the Wondrous Lord, thou shalt be embellished both here and hereafter. Pause.
Sitting and standing reflect thou on God.
Thus all thine afflictions shall be past.
All thine enemies shall become thy friends,
and thy soul shall be rendered immaculate.
This is the most majestic deed.
Of all the faith this is the most sublime faith.
By God's meditation, thou shalt be emancipated,
and thou shalt be rid of the burden of sins of many births.
Thy hope shall then be fulfilled
and thy noose of death shall be shorn.
Hear thou the Guru's instruction,
and then, O Nanak, thou shalt merge in celestial bliss.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
He to whom belongs everything, acknowledge thou Him to be its Master.
Shed thou thy self-conceit
He, to Him thou belongest; to Him belong all.
Contemplating Him, thou shalt be ever at peace,
Why wanderest thou in doubt, o senseless man?
Without the Name, nothing shall avail thee. Saying "This is mine, mine" good many have repented. Pause.
Whatever the Lord does, deem that as good.
Without accepting that as good, thou shalt mingle with dust.
His will seems sweet unto me.
Rare is the person, within whose mind the Lord abides by Guru's grace.
The Lord himself is care-free and Unperceivable.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, O my soul, meditate thou on Him.
Such is the Lord, contemplating who thine distresses shall be dispelled,
and here and hereafter thy face shall become bright.
Who and how many have been saved by singing the Lord's praise;
One can count them not, nor can evaluate their worth.
The sinking iron swims across through the society of the saints.
He alone, O Nanak, is saved, to whom the Lord extends His mercy.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Meditate thou in thy mind on the Fortunate Lord.
This is the instruction, that the Perfect Guru has imparted.
Then all your fears and alarms shall depart,
and your desire be fulfilled.
Fruitful is the service of the Great God.
The worth of the True Invisible and Mysterious Lord can be uttered not. Pause.
He Himself is the Doer and Prompter of deeds.
Ever remember thou Him, O my soul,
and always perform thou His service.
Thus shalt thou be blessed with truth, poise, and peace, O my friend.
Exceedingly great is my Master.
He establishes and disestablishes in a moment.
Without Him there is not another.
He alone is the Saviour of His slave.
Take thou pity on me, O Lord and hearken to my prayer,
that I, Thy slave may see Thine vision.
Nanak, the worshipper, ever utters the Name of Him,
whose splendour is the greatest of all.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Vain is the mainstay of man.
My Lord Master, Thou alone art my prop.
I have forsaken all other hopes.
I have, now met with the Carefree Lord, the Treasure of virtues.
O my soul, meditate thou on the Lord's Name alone.
O my mind, sing thou the praise of thy God, the Lord Master and thy affair shall be arranged. Pause.
Thou, O Lord, art the Doer of deeds,
Of Thine lotus feet, my God, I ponder over that Lord.
Within my mind and body, I ponder over that Lord.
The Joyous Lord has shown me His vision.
Ever seek I the support of Him,
who has created all the creatures.
Invoking and contemplating God, all the treasures are obtained,
and the Saviour Lord saves man at the last moment.
Be thou the dust of all men's feet.
Obliterating thy self-conceit thou shalt merge in God.
Night and day reflect thou over the Name;
for, this alone is the fruitful deed, O Nanak.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The Bounteous Lord is the Cause of causes.
The Merciful Master cherishes all.
The Lord is Invisible and Invisible and Infinite.
The Master Himself is great and immeasurable.
I make obeisance unto the illustrious God, the Lord of earth.
The Creator-Lord is pervading all the places. Pause.
God is the Lord of the world, the Life of the universe and the Master of wealth.
Within thy mind, meditate thou on the Lord, the Destroyer of dread.
God is the Lord of faculties, the cherisher of the world,
the Master of universe, Perfect, Omnipresent and the Dispenser of emancipation.
Thou alone, O Lord, art the Merciful Master, spiritual guild,
Prophet and the Religious Instructor.
Thou art the Master of hearts, the Adjudicator of justice,
and more sacred than the Quran and other Semitic texts.
The man-lion and the Merciful Lord is He.
The Pervading God gives support to all the hearts.
The Luminous Lord abides in all the Places,
His wondrous play can be realised not.
O my Creator, extend Thine kindness and compassion unto me.
O the Maker-Lord, bless me with thine devotional service and meditation,
Says Nanak, the Guru has rid me of my doubt.
The Muslim's God and the Hindu's transcendent Lord are one and the same.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The sins of millions of births are eradicated.
Remembering the Lord Master, pain touches man not.
If the Guru's lotus feet are enshrined in man's mind,
all the arch evils hasten away from his body.
Sing thou the praise of the world Cherisher, O mortal.
Ineffable and true is the discourse of the Perfect Lord. The light of the Luminous Lord is pervading all. Pause.
All thirst and hunger are stilled,
by contemplating on the Immortal Lord, through the grace of saints.
Perform thou the Lord's service night and day.
This is the sign to meet with thy God.
When the Lord becomes compassionate, all the worldly involvements are ended.
Seeing the Guru's sight, one is filled with bliss.
My primal and prenatal destiny has awakened.
God's praise, I ever sing with my tongue.
Ever approved are the Lord's saints.
The Lord anoints the forehead of the pious persons.
If any mortal is blessed with the dust of the feet of God's slave;
he, then obtains the supreme salvation, O Nanak.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Unto the Lord's vision, be thou a sacrifice.
In thy mind, fix thou thine attention on the Lord's lotus feet.
Apply thou the dust of the saints' feet to thy forehead,
and the filth of evil-mindedness of thine many births shall be washed off.
Meeting with whom, man's self-conceit is stilled,
and the Transcendent Lord is perceived pervading all over, such is the Guru; and then the Perfect, Illustrious Master showers His benediction on the man. Pause.
This is the Guru's praise, that man utters the Lord's Name.
This alone is the Guru's adoration that man ever sings the Lord's praise.
This alone is the Guru's adoration, that the mortal deems the Lord as near.
Believe thou as true the Guru's word.
By Guru's instruction, weal and woe seem alike,
and thirst and hunger cling not to one, ever.
By Guru's Hymns the mind becomes content and satiated.
Contemplating the Master of the Universe, a veil is cast over all the sins of the Mortal.
The Guru is God, and Guru, the Lord of the universe.
The Guru is bounteous, compassionate and forgiving.
He, whose mind is attached to the Guru's feet,
he, O slave Nanak has Perfect destiny.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
On whose support livest thou on in the world?
O ignorant fool, who is friend of thine here.
The Lord alone is thy Friend whose supreme dignity thou realises not.
The five highway men, them thou deemest as thy intimates.
Serve thou the Home, through which is thy emancipation, O friend.
Day and night, utter thou the Lord's praise and enshrine love for the society of saints. Pause.
Thy human life is passing away in self conceit and strife,
and thou art satiated not such is the savour of sins.
In roaming and rambling, thou has suffered great anguish,
and thou cannot cross of terrible ocean of mammon.
Thou doest the deeds the shall avail thee not.
As Thou sowest, so shall thou reap (or eat).
There is no other than the Lord to save thee.
If God's grace be upon thee, then alone can thou swim across.
The Purifier of sinners is Thy Name, O Lord.
Bless thou me thy slave, with the gift of thy Name.
My Lord, extend thine mercy and emancipate me Thou.
Nanak has grasped Thy protection, O Lord.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
I have procured peace in this world.
I am not to meet the Righteous Judge to render an account.
I shall be illustrious in Lord's court,
and shall abide not in the womb again.
I have now realised the worth of the Saint Guru's friendship.
By virtue of the primal destiny, I have met with him and he has mercifully blessed me with the Lord's Name. Pause.
When my mind is attached to the Guru's feet,
blest, blest is that fortunate conjecture.
The dust of the feet of the saints has anointed my forehead,
and all my sins and sufferings are eradicated.
When the mortal performs the saint Guru's hearty service,
then is his mind rendered pure
I have seen the fruitful vision of the Lord's slave.
The Lord's Name abides in all the hearts.
All my strifes and sufferings have ended,
and I am merged in Him, from whom I had welled up.
The Lord of matchless beauty has become manifest unto me.
The Perfect Lord of Nanak is ever forgiving.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The tiger grazes the cow,
a shell becomes worth a hundred thousands,
and the elephant nurses the she-goat,
when his Lord looks upon with His eye of grace.
O my Beloved Lord, the Treasure of mercy!
I can narrate not Thine manifold excellences. Pause.
Though it sees the meat, but the eat eats it not.
The Great butcher throws away his knife, and
when the creator-Lord in the mind,
the net of the entangled fish breaks loose.
Thy dry wood becomes green-red,,
and the beauteous lotus flower blooms on the high desert.
The True Guru-God quenches the fire,
and yokes his slave to his service.
He redeems even the ungrateful ones,
my Lord is ever merciful.
He is ever the succourer of His saints.
Nanak has sought the protection of the Lord's lotus feet.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The five tigers of evil desires, the Lord has slain.
The ten she-wolves of senses, He has driven away.
The turning round of the three whirl-pools of modes has ended,
Though the saints society, ended is the fear of the circuit of transmigration.
I live by contemplating and remembering my Lord.
In His mercy, the Lord has protected His slave, The True Master is ever, ever the Forgiver. Pause.
The mountain of sins is burnt off like straw,
by remembering and contemplating the Name and worshipping the Lord's feet.
The Lord, the embodiment of bliss, then becomes manifest in all,
the places and yoked to the Lord's devotional service, I enjoy peace.
I have crossed the world-ocean, as if it is the foot-print of a calf, filled with water.
Now, I shall not suffer agony, nor shall I again be overtaken by grief,
God, the ocean, is contained in the mind-pitcher.
It is no strange a thing for the Lord-Creator to do,
When I am separated from the Lord, then sink I into the nether world.
When He pulls me out, then am I enraptured by His grace.
Sin and virtue are not under my control.
With love and affection, Nanak sings the Lord's praise.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Neither the body belongs to thee, nor belongs to thee the mind.
Because of mammon's love, thou art entangled in fraud.
Thou frisk about like a lamb and a kid.
Unexpectedly, death shall cast her noose and hurl her quoit at thee.
O my soul, seek thou the refuge of the Lord's lotus feet.
Utter thou the Name of the Lord, thy accompanier and succourer and by the Guru's grace thou shalt obtain the true wealth. Pause.
The unfinished worldly affairs are fulfilled not ever.
On account of lust, wrath and pride, thou shalt ever regret.
Thou committest sins in order that thou mayest live,
but not even an iota shall go with thee, O thoughtless man.
Thou practice deceit, know many tricks,
and for the sake of mere shells, throwest dust on thy head,
Thou rememberest Him not ever, who has blessed thee with everything.
The pain of false avarice leaves thee not.
When the supreme Lord is merciful,
this soul then becomes the dust of the saints feet.
With His lotus saints' the Lord has attached me to His skirt.
Nanak is absorbed in the Trust of the True.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
I have sought the protection of Lord, the King.
I have become fear-free by singing the praise of the Master of the Universe and in the society of saints, my pain is stilled. Pause
He, within whose mind, the Lord abides;
that man sees no difficulty in crossing the untraversable world-ocean.
All his affairs are adjusted,
who with his tongue ever utter Lord-God's Name.
he, on whose forehead, the Guru places his hand,
why should that attendant of the Lord feel any anxiety?
His fear of birth and death is dispelled,
as he is a sacrifice unto his Perfect Guru.
I am profoundly pleased by meeting with my Guru-God.
He alone obtains the Lord's vision, unto whom the Guru is merciful.
He, to whom the Transcendent Lord shows mercy
by virtue of the society of saints, he crosses the terrible world ocean.
Drink ye the Name-Nectar, O dear saints,
that your countenances be sanctified in the True Court.
Forsaking all your sins, make ye merry,
and reflecting over the Lord, swim across the world ocean.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The fire instead of burning the fuel, runs away from it.
Instead of dissolving the dust, the water recedes away from it in ten directions.
The feet soar high and the sky sinks low.
The ocean becomes manifest in the pitcher.
So powerful is our venerable Lord.
In their mind, the saints forget not God, even for an instant. Through the eight watches of the day, O my soul, meditate thou on Him. Pause.
First is the butter and afterwards the milk.
The filth purifies the soap.
The fearless are afraid of the fear.
The dead one slays the living one.
The corporeal is unmanifest and the incorporeal manifest,
All these wondrous deeds the Lord of the world does.
He, who is cheated not, is cheated by the cheat.
Without the stock-in-trade, man takes to trade again and again.
Joining the society of saints, utter thou the Lord's Name.
So say the Simirtis, the Shashtras, the Vedas and the Puranas.
Rare is the One, who deliberates, over the Lord's deliberation.
Nanak, he attains to the supreme salvation.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Whatever pleases Him, that alone happens.
Ever, ever seek I God's protection. Without the Lord there is no other second. Pause.
The sons, wife and wealth, that thou see; none of these shall go with thee.
Eating the poisonous potion, thou art gone astray. Thou shalt, at last, depart leaving behind thine riches and mansions.
Calumniating others, thou art greatly ruined and due to thine past deeds, thou shalt be cast in the womb existences.
Thine past deeds shall leave thee not and the very dreadful death's minister shall seize thee.
Thou tellest lies, practisest other than what thou preachest and it is a thing of great shame, that thy desire is quenched not.
Calumniating the saints, thou art seized by an incurable ailment, thy body perishes and thou art utterly ruined.
He, who created the saints, He alone embellished them and Himself makes them victorious.
His slaves, O Nanak, the Lord keeps clasped to His bosom. O my Transcendent Lord, show Thou Thy mercy and compassion unto me, as well.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Such Perfect Guru-God is now my succourer.
His meditation goes not in vain. Pause.
Seeing the Lord's sight one is one attains a stage of ecstasy.
The dust of His feet snaps the Death's noose.
When the Lord's lotus-feet abide in my mind,
all the affairs of my body are arranged.
He, on whose forehead, Master places his hand, is emancipated.
My Lord is the Master of the Masterless.
He is the Saviour of the sinners and the Treasure of mercy.
Ever, ever I am a sacrifice unto Him.
He; whom the Guru blesses with the gift of his immaculate instruction;
He sheds the sins and his self-conceit is dispelled.
Invoke thou the One Lord in the saints guild.
Professing Love for the Name the sins are obliterated.
The great Supreme Lord abides amongst all.
God, the Treasure of virtues is pervading all hearts.
My Lord! bless me with Thine vision. I cherish Thy hope alone.
Nanak ever makes this true supplication before Thee.
Rag Ramkali 5th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Sing thou the songs of praise of thy Omnipresent Lord.
Contemplating the Name, supreme bliss is attained and coming and going is ended, O my Friend. Pause.
Singing the Lord's praise, the soul is illumined,
and the mortal abides in the Lord's lotus-feet.
In the society of saints, one is emancipated,
O Nanak, and he crosses the terrible world-ocean.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Perfect is my Guru, my Guru is Perfect.
Meditating on the Lord's Name, I am ever at peace and all my ailments and falsehood are eradicated. Pause.
Meditate thou on that True Lord alone.
In his refuge, ever-lasting peace is obtained.
When the mortal has hunger for the Lord's Name alone, he sleeps in peace.
Pondering over the Lord, all the agonies are eradicated.
Enjoy thou the celestial bliss, O my brother.
The Perfect Guru shall rid thee of all thy anxiety.
Utter thou the Lord's Name through all the eight watches,
and He shall Himself save thee, O Nanak.
Rag Ramkali 5th Guru. Partal.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I make obeisance unto the Omnipotent Lord.
The one Lord alone is permeating the water, the desert, the earth and the sky. Pause.
Over and over again, the Creator creates the creation. he sustains and also destroys it,
He has no home, nor takes He any food.
Unfathomable, Fortitudinous, Lofty, Grand and Infinite is the Lord, and His Name is precious like the jewel.
Nanak is a sacrifice unto Him, who enacts wondrous plays and invaluable are whose merits.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Beguiled by worldly valuables gold and wife, the mortal departs, leaving behind beauty, revelments, fragrance and pleasures of flesh. Pause.
A thousand millions and innumerable treasures of riches and sights of pomp and show, which comfort the mind,
go not with mortal.
Deluded by doubt, he is involved in his sons, wife, brothers and friends, but these are short-lived like the shade of a tree.
Nanak seeks the protection of the Lord's lotus-feet and through the saintly faith, he obtained peace.
There is but one God, By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Rag Ramkali. 9th Guru Tipadas.
O my soul seek thou the shelter of God's Name,
remembering which thy evil intellect shall be dispelled and thou shalt obtain the status of supreme bliss. Pause.
Deem that man to be very fortunate, who sings God's praise.
Washing off the sins of millions of births, he shall ultimately go to celestial elysium.
At the last moment, Ajamal, grew conscious of the Omnipresent Lord.
The state which the superior Yogis desire; that state he obtained in an instant.
The elephant had no merits, no learning and what religious ceremonies had he performed?
Nanak, behold thou the daily practice of the Lord, who blessed him with the gift of fearlessness.
Ramkali 9th Guru.
O saints, what way should I now adopt,
by which all evil thoughts may be dispelled and mind be strapped in the Lord's meditation. Pause.
My mind is entangled in mammon and knows not-any thing of Divine knowledge.
What Name is that in the world, Contemplating which one can obtain the rank of emancipation?
When the holy men became compassionate and kind, then did they tell me this thing:
Know that whosoever sings the Lord's praise has performed all religious ceremonies.
The mortal, who, night and day, claps the Lord-Name to his heart even for a trice,
his fear of death is dispelled, O Nanak, and he makes his life fruitful.
Ramkali 9th Guru.
O mortal, think thou of Pervading God.
Every moment, night and day thy age is decreasing and thy body (life) passes in vain. Pause.
Thou hast wasted away the youth in sensual pleasures and thy childhood in ignorance,
Thou hast grown old and even now thou knowest not in what evil understanding thou art entangled.
The Lord, who has blessed thee with human life; why hast thou forgotten Him?
By remembering whom man is emancipated, His praise thou singest not even for a moment.
Why takest thou pride on the worldly wealth? It goes not with anyone.
Says Nanak, meditate thou on thy Lord, the wish-fulfilling jewel. he shall be thy Helper in the end.
Ramkali 1st Guru. Ashatpadies.
There is but One True God. By Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The same moon and the same stars rise and the same sun blazes in the sky.
The same is the earth and the same wind blows. The age abides within the mortals. How can another place be ascribed to it?
Shed thou thy desire to remain alive.
He who plays the tyrant is approved. Deem this to be the surest sign of the Darkage. Pause.
The Darkage is not heard visiting any country or sitting at any shrine.
It is not there, where the man of bounty practises charity, nor it is seated in the mansion, built by it.
If anyone practises truth, he is frustrated and prosperity visits not the home of a penitent.
If any one utters the Lord's Name, he is disreputed. These are the characteristics of the Darkage.
Whosoever possesses cheiftainship, he suffers humiliation. What has the servant to fear?
When the chief is chained, then he dies at the hands of the servant.
Utter thou the Lord's praise. The Kaliage is come.
The Justice of the three ages has, now, ceased to be administered. If the Lord blesses man with virtues, then alone, he obtains salvation. Pause.
In the unpeaceful Kaliage Muslim Law decides the cases and the blue-robed Qazi, is the Judge.
It is through the Guru's hymns, in place of the Atharwan Veda of Brahma, and the good deeds, that glory is obtained in this age.
Worship without faith, discipline without truthfulness and sacred thread without chastity; of what avail are they?
One may bath, wash his body and apply sacrificial; mark to his forehead, but without the Lord's meditation, there can be no piety,
In the kalage, Quran has become the approved book.
The Brahmans, the Hindu religious books and Puranas are esteemed not.
The Merciful Khuda is now the Lord's Name, O Nanak.
Know thou that there is but One Creator of the creation.
Nanak seeks the greatness of the Lord's Name. For no other religious deed is superior to it.
If man goes elsewhere to ask for what he has at his home, he meets with reproach then.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
O Yogi, thou preachest to the world and thyself buildest a monastery.
Abandoning thy devotional attitude, how shalt thou obtain the True Lord?
Thou art entangled in mine-ness, worldly attachment and love of woman.
Thou art neither an anchoret, nor a family man.
O Yogi, remain thou seated and thy pain of duality shall be dispelled.
Thou feelest not shame in begging from door to door. Pause.
Thou singest songs, but knowest not thyself.
How can the great fire, which is burning thee, be extinguished?
If by Guru's instruction, thy soul is absorbed in the Lord's love,
then thou shalt easily enjoy the alms of contemplation.
Thou appliest ashes to thy body and practiseth hypocrisy.
On account of the love of riches, thou shalt bear the brunt of Death's mace.
The broken begging bowl of thy mind can hold not the alms of the Lord's love.
Thou art bound by bond and shalt continue coming and going.
Thou restrain not thy seed, and callest thyself continent.
While saying 'Mother', thou beg from her and fallest in love with that very woman.
Thou art bereft of compassion and the Lord's Light shines not in thee.
Thou art completely drowned in every species of entanglements.
Thou wearest religious garbs and with thy patched coat assumes many guises.
Like a conjurer, thou playest many false tricks.
The fire of anxiety, greatly burns thy heart.
Without good actions how shalt thou swim across?
Thou makest ear-rings of glass for thy ears.
Through mere learning and gnosis there is no emancipation.
Thou art beguiled! by the relishes of tongue and sensual organs.
Thou hast become a beast, and this mark can be erased not.
In three modes the worldly men are involved and in three modes the Yogis.
Meditating on the Name, man's sorrows are dispelled.
Through the Name, he becomes immaculate and truthful.
Yogi is he, who thinks of the true way of life.
With Thee are nine treasures and Thou art potent to do everything.
Thou alone establish and disestablish. Whatever Thou does, that alone happens.
Who practises celibacy, chastity, sobriety and righteousness,
that Yogi is blessed with immaculate mind and becomes the friend of the three worlds, O Nanak.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
In the six-ringed abbey of the human body is the seat of the detached mind.
The love for the Name's meditation has awakened within it.
The celestial strain rings within me and my soul is absorbed therein.
By Guru's instruction, my soul is pleased with the True Name.
O mortal, it is through the Lord's devotional service that peace is procured.
By Guru's grace, the Lord Master seems sweet and in the Lord Master's name, the mortal merges. Pause.
Banishing the love of worldly valuables, one merges in the Lord,
and meeting with the True Guru, he unitest in His union.
The Lord's name is an invaluable jewel and emerald;
imbued with that my mind is rendered fortitudinous.
The mortal is afflicted not with the ailment of ego and self-hood,
by the Lord's devotion, and his fear of death flees.
Death's courier, the enemy of life, touches me not,
as the God's Immaculate Name sparkles within my mind.
Reflecting on the Lord's Name, one comes to belong to the Formless Lord.
Awakening to the Guru's instruction, one's evil-intellect is erased.
By remaining wakeful night and day, and professing love for the Lord,
he is emancipated in life and finds this state from within him.
I live detached in the secluded body-cave.
The five thieves, I have slain with the Lord's Name.
My soul visits not another's house, nor does it wabble now.
I now remain continually absorbed in God.
By Guru's grace, I remain wakeful, immaculate,
ever detached and weaved into quintessence.
The world is asleep, it dies and continues coming and going.
Without the Guru's instruction, it obtains not understanding.
Day and night, the Divine music resounds within him,
who, by Guru's grace, knows the wondrous state of the Deathless Lord.
When one knows the Name,
then realises he the One Detached Lord, pervading all.
My mind is easily absorbed in seedless trance,
and forsaking self-conceit and greed, I now know but One Lord.
When the disciple's own soul accepts the lead of the Guru,
then eradicating his duality, he merges in the Lord, O Nanak.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
Thou calculatest auspicious day for marriage, but thou reflectest not,
that the One Formless Lord is above and beyond these days.
He alone, who meets the Guru, knows the way.
When man obtains the Guru's instruction, then realises he the Lord's will.
Speak thou not falsehood, O Pandit and tell the truth.
When through the Name, one's ego is stilled, then finds he the Lord's mansion. Pause.
Calculating and counting, the astrologer draws out a horoscope.
He peruses and reads it out to others, but realises not the reality.
Deem thou the Guru's hymns over and above all,
Utter thou not any other discourse, as all else is but ashes.
Thou bathest, washest and worshippest stones.
Without being imbued with God, thou art the filthiest of the filthy.
Stilling thy self-conceit, thou shalt obtain the Lord's supreme wealth.
Meditating on the Lord, the mortal is emancipated and fulfilled.
Man readest of strifes and deliberates not over Divine knowledge.
Drowned himself, how can he save his ancestors?
Some rare one sees the Lord contained amongst all the hearts.
When man meets the True Guru, then alone obtains he understanding.
By making calculations, doubt and sorrow enter the mind.
Seeking the Guru's protection, peace ensues.
Having committed sins, o Lord, I have now sought Thine protection.
According to my past deed, the Guru has caused me to meet my God.
The Lord can be obtained not, unless man enters the Guru's sanctuary.
Otherwise he strays in doubt and is born to die and come again.
If man dies in sins, he is bound at the door of Death-courier's.
Within his mind is not the Lord's Name, nor is his conduct according to the Guru's instruction.
Some call themselves teachers, scholars and Brahmans.
They are imbued with the love of another and mount not to the Master's mansion.
He, who by Guru's grace, has the Name's prop;
amongst millions, rare is that unequalled person.
One is evil and another good, but the One True Lord is contained within all.
Understand this, O Divine, through the support of the True Guru.
Rare is the one, who by the Guru's grace, realises the Unique Lord.
His comings and goings (Transmigration) cease and he merges in the Lord.
They in whose mind is the Unique Lord,
possess all the virtues and meditate on the True One.
He, who does the deeds in the Guru's will,
O Nanak, is absorbed in the Truest of the True.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
By practising stubborn self-torture, the body wears off.
Through fasting and penance, the soul is softened not.
Nothing else becomes equal to the Lord's Name.
Serve thou thy Guru, O my soul and associate with the Lord's slaves.
Quaffing the Lord's elixir, the tyrant Death's courier can touch thee not, nor can she-serpent of mammon can sting thee. Pause.
The world reads of strifes and is softened by music.
Engrossed in sin, the world of three qualities continues coming and going,
Without the Lord's Name, man suffers pain.
The Yogi mounts the breath into tenth-gate and makes merry there.
He practises in-washing and six religious rites.
Without the Lord's Name, vain is the breath, he draws.
Within him is the fire of five evil passions. How can he have composure?
Within him is the thief. How can he obtain the Lord's relish/
Getting resigned to Guru's will one conquers the body fortress.
With filth in the mind, man wanders at the places of pilgrimage.
When the mind is not pure, what is the good of practising outward cleanliness.
When such are the mortal's past actions, then whom should he blame but himself.
Some one takes, not food, and tortures his body.
Without the Guru's wisdom he becomes not content.
Such a perverse person is born only to die and be born again.
Consult thou the Guru and associate the Lord's slaves.
Thus shall thy soul merge in God and shall come and go not.
Sans the Lord's Name, what other deed should one do.
Still thou, from within thee, the clamouring of the mouse of desire.
Utter thou the Lord's Name. This alone is the service of the Primal Being.
When the Lord extends His mercy, O Nanak, then he blesses one with His Name.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
The entire creation is within Thee, O Lord. There is no other creator,
Whatever is said to be, that is from Thee, O Lord.
He, the True Lord pervades all the ages through.
Without God, there is no other to bring about creation and destruction.
Such is my profound and unfathomable Lord.
Whosoever meditates on Him, obtains peace. The arrow of the Death's courier does not strike him, who utters the Lord's Name. Pause.
The Lord's Name is an invaluable pearl and jewel.
Imperishable and Immeasurable is the True Lord.
Immaculate is the tongue which utters the True Name.
In one's own home is the 'True Lord. There is no doubt about it,
Some sit in the woods and some make their habitation in mountains.
Forgetting the Name, they putrefy in pride,
Of what avail are wisdom and concentration without tae Lord's Name?
The Guru-wards obtain honour in the Lord's court.
Practising obstinacy and self-conceit, the Lord is obtained not.
Studying religious texts and reading them to people,
and wandering at shrines, the malady is eradicated not.
Without the Name, how can the mortal obtain peace?
However much one may try, he can, in no way, control his sex-desire.
His mind wanders and he falls into hell.
Bound at Yama's city he suffers punishment.
Without the Name, the soul writhes in pain.
None of the many seekers, adepts, silent sages and gods,
can satisfy his mind through the stubborn rituals.
He who reflects over the Name and takes to Guru's service;
his mind and body become immaculate and his self-conceit is obliterated.
Blessed with Thy grace; O Lord, obtain I the True Name,
and abide in Thine sanctuary with sublime devotion.
Through Thy grace, the love for Thine service has welled up in me.
By Guru's grace contemplate and remember I the Lord's Name.
When the mortal is rid of ego and pride, then is his soul bedewed with the Lord's the Love.
Practising falsehood and hypocrisy, God is obtained not,
Without the Guru's world, the mortal obtain not the door of the Lord's mansion.
The Guru-ward, O Nanak, reflects over the quintessence.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
O silly man, as thou comest, so shalt thou depart and as thou wert born, so shall thou die.
As you enjoy the revelments, so shalt thou suffer agony. For getting the Name, thou shalt fall into the terrible ocean.
Beholding thy body and wealth thou hast become proud.
Thou love gold and woman, more and more. Why hast thou forgotten the Name and why strayest thou in doubt?. Pause.
Thou practise not continence, chastity, self-discipline and humility and the ghost within thy body-skeleton has become dry life wood.
Alms, gifts, ablution and austerities, thou hast none. Without associating with the society of saints, thou art born, in vain.
Attached to avarice, thou hast forgotten the Name and in coming and going, thy life has been ruined.
When death's courier seizes thee by the hair, he hastens to punish thee, Then thou becomest unconscious and fallest into the mouth of death.
Day and night thou remain involved in slander and art jealous of others In thy mind thou hast neither Name, nor compassion for all.
Without the Guru's instruction, thou shalt obtain not salvation and, honour, Without the Lord's Name, thou shalt go to hell.
In a moment thou assume many disguises like a conjurer, and are engrossed in worldly love and sin.
Seeing the extension of thy wealth here and there, thou hast become inebriated with the Love of wealth.
Thou committest sins, makest ostentations on a large scale and without the Name's meditation, hast fallen into error.
Thou sufferest great pain from the disease of self-conceit. Receiving the Guru's instruction thou shalt be rid of this disease.
Seeing ease and riches coming to him the worshipper of mammon, becomes proud in his mind.
He, to whom this body and wealth belong; when He takes them back, the mortal feels anxiety and pain in his mind.
At the last moment, nothing goes with man, whoever are seen, they all are effected by mammon.
He, the Master, is our Infinite and Primal Lord. The mortal swims across by treasuring God's Name in his mind.
Thou weepest for the dead, but who hears thy weeping? The dead one has fallen to the crocodile in the terrible ocean.
Seeing his family, riches, houses and mansions, the lover of wealth is entangled into worthless involvements.
When the mortal comes, then the Lord sends him, He goes away when he calls him.
Whatever He has to do, that the Lord is doing. He, the Pardoner, pardons His slave.
They, who have tasted this elixir of the Lord, in their association the Lord's whereabouts are known.
Wealth, supernatural power, wisdom and Divine knowledge are obtained from the Guru. Seeking the Guru's protection, one is blessed with the riches of emancipation.
The Guru-ward considers woe and weal as the same and remains detached from joy and sorrow.
Stilling his self-conceit, the pious person obtains God, and the Lord merges him in Himself.
Ramkali Dakhni. 1st Guru.
The Guru has enshrined in me lust-control, chastity, arduous toil and righteousness and I am absorbed in the True Name's elixir.
My merciful Guru, ever remains merged in the Lord's love.
Day and night, he remains fixed in the one Lord's love and is pleased on seeing the True Lord. Pause.
He abides in the tenth gate, casts impartial look on all and is imbued with the celestial strain.
Tying the loin-cloth of chastity, he remains merged in the Omnipresent Lord and his tongue enjoys the Divine affection.
The Lord, who hast created the creation, has met the True Guru. Thinking of the Guru's true way of life, the Lord is pleased with him.
All are contained in the one Lord is amongst all. This vision the True Guru has shown unto me.
He who created continents. spheres and universe, That Lord can be known not.
From the Light of the Guru, the sikh-lamp is illumined and the Guru has shown the sikh divine Light pervading the three worlds.
The Guru is seated on the True Throne in the True mansion and has fixed his attention on the Fear-free Lord.
My Guru, the detached Yogi, has fascinated all and has played the lyre of the Lord's love in every heart.
Nanak, the mortal is emancipated in the refuge of the Lord and the True Guru becomes his true succourer.
Ramkali 1st Guru.
God, who has installed His might in the earth and sky, has made His Home in the mind's monastery.
Through the Lord's Name, the supreme Guru has saved many, O saints. Pause.
He who obliterates worldly attachment and effaces his ego, sees thine Light pervading the three worlds, O Lord.
He overwhelms his desire, enshrines the Lord within his mind and reflects on the True Guru's word.
Within him a spontaneously rings the late of Divine knowledge and he sees Thy Light amongst all the hearts. O Lord.
The world is a flute. Within that he keeps his soul detached and burns the Lord's fire.
Gathering the body of five elements, day and night, he burns in it the immaculate light of the Infinite Lord's lamp.
The right and left nostrils are the guards of this body lyre and this lyre synchronises a wondrous melody.
The detached one acquires a seat in the city of God, who is Invisible, Unapproachable and Infinite.
This mind is the King of the city of the body and the five knowing faculties abide in it.
Seated in his mansion, the meritorious King utters the Name and ministers justice.
What can poor death and birth say unto him who conquering his mind, remains dead in life?
The One Lord as created the forms of Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva and He Himself is the Doer of deeds.
He who assays his body and reflects over the quintessence of his self, crosses the terrible world-ocean.
Through the Guru's service, everlasting peace is attained and within one permeates the efficacious Name of the Lord.
The Giver of virtue, unites with Himself the mortal who stills his ego and desire.
Abandoning the three modes, one should abide in the fourth state. Singular is this devotional service of the Lord.
The Yog of the pious person is this, that through the Guru's instruction, he searches his own-self and enshrines within his mind the One Lord, the Enemy of pride.
Imbued with the Name, his mind becomes steady. This alone is the sublime avocation.
He, the detached one enters not into religious controversies and practises not hypocrisy, but by Guru's grace reflects on the Lord's Name.
He, who practises chastity and truth and ponders over the Name is the pious Yogi, who practises the Real Yog.
The Yogi, who dies through the Name and overpowers his mind, comes to realise the way of Yog.
O Yogi, through the love of riches, the mortal is drowned in the terrible ocean. Through the Name, he saves himself and saves his lineage, too.
Contemplating over the Name and the Saint-Guru's hymns, O Yogi, thou shalt become a hero, through the four ages.
This soul is bewitched by wealth, O Yogi. Deliberating on the Name, it is released from captivity.
O Nanak, He pardons those meets them, who seek Thine protection by associating with the saints.
Ramkali 3rd Guru. Ashtpadis
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Put the rings of modesty in thine ears, O Yogi and make compassion thy patched coat
Apply thou the fear of birth and death to thy body as ashes, O Yogi, then shalt thou conquer the three worlds.
Strike thou such strains on thy lyre, O Yogi,
that the Lyre may emit the celestial strain and thou mayest remain absorbed in God's love. Pause.
Make truth thy platter and contentment thy wallet. Put the ambrosial Name therein as thy food.
Make meditation thy staff, O Yogi and Divine knowledge the horn to blow.
Let the composed mind be thy sitting posture, then shalt thou be rid of the tormenting desire O yogi.
If thou go abegging in the village of the body, O Yogi, then shalt thou obtain the Name in thy lap.
By means of this lute, thy attention shall be fixed not, not shalt thou obtain the True Name in thy skirt. O Yogi.
By means of this harp thou shalt neither find peace, nor shall ego depart from within thee, O yogi.
Fix the fear and love of the Lord the two guards to thy lute, O Yogi and make this body of thine, its frame
If thou become virtuous, then shall the string play, In this way thy desire shall depart.
He who understands the Lord's command the applies his mind to the one Lord, is called a Yogi.
His doubt is dispelled, he becomes pure and like this he obtains like this he obtains the way of union with God.
All that comes to view shall be destroyed, therefore fix thou thy mind on God,
If thou enshrine affection for the True Guru, Then shalt thou obtain this understanding.
Leaving thy family, if thou wanderest abroad; in this, Yog consists not, O Yogi.
In the body-home is the Lord God's Name, by Guru's grace, thou shalt find thy Lord-Master
This world is an earthen puppet, O Yogi and in it is the dire disease of craving for wealth.
By various efforts and wearing sectarial dresses, this malady is cured not, O Yogi.
God's Name is the medicine, O Yogi, in what ever mind the Lord enshrines it.
He, who becomes resigned to Guru's will, understands this and he alone finds the way of Yoga.
The way to union with God is difficult, O Yogi. He on whom the Lord Looks with favour, obtains it.
Within and without, he sees the One Lord, and from within himself he eradicates his doubt.
O Yogi, play thou the lyre, which plays without being struck.
Says Nanak, thus shalt thou be emancipated, O Yogi and remain merged in the True Lord.
Ramkali 3rd Guru.
Through the Guru is revealed the treasure of the Lord's meditation. The True Guru has imparted this understanding unto me.
O saints, it is through the Guru, that one is blessed with greatness. Pause.
By ever abiding in truth, poise and peace, well up in man and lust and wrath flee from within him.
Stilling his self-conceit, he enshrines love for the Name and his egotism is burnt through the Name.
He, who creates the mortal, by His will he dies. The Name alone is his succourer in the end.
He, who created the creation, is ever-present. See Him not far away.
Within thy mind, utter thou the True name and enshrine thou affection for the True Lord.
The Invaluable Name is in the saints' congregation. By the greatest good destiny, one obtains it.
Strays thou not in doubt, serve thy True Guru and keep thy mind steady at one place.
Without the Name, all the mortals are gone astray and lose their life, in vain.
O Yogi, having lost the way of Yoga, thou wanderest about. Through hypocrisy, union with the Lord is obtained not.
Taking seat in the city of God, by Guru's instruction, thou shalt attain to Yoga.
Stopping thy wanderings through the Guru's instructions, the Name shall come to abide in thy mind.
Ye Saints, this body is a tank and one should bathe in it by enshrining affection for the Lord.
Pure are those persons and through the Name They wash off their filth, who take bath in the tank of the Name.
The unmindful mortals of three qualities contemplate not the Name and without the Name are wasted away.
The three personalities of Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva are gone astray in the illusion of three modes.
By Guru's grace, one is rid of the triad and enshrines love for the fourth state.
The scholars read, pursue and utter words of strife. They obtain not real understanding.
Engrossed in sin, they go amiss in error, whom can they instruct, O brother?
Sublime is the word of the devoted persons and it remains pervading all the ages through.
He, who is attached to the Gurbani, is emancipated and through the Name, merges in the True One.
He, who by means of Gurbani searches his body villa, obtains the Name's nine treasure.
Stilling his desire, man is absorbed in equipoise and utters the Lord's praise without words.
His eyes behold the wondrous Lord and His mind remains attached to the Unseeable Lord.
The Undiscernible Lord is ever Immaculate, In His Supreme Light, such a man's light merges.
I ever praise my Guru, who has imparted unto me the true understanding.
Nanak makes a supplication, it is through the Name, that one procures salvation and honour.
Ramkali 3rd Guru.
Hard to obtain is the Lord's worship, O saints, One can say not its praise.
O saints, through the Guru one obtains the Perfect one,
and adores the Perfect Lord. Pause.
Without God, everything is filthy, O saints. What offering should I lay before Him?
Whatever pleases the True Lord; that alone is His worship. A hearty obedience to the Lord's will, amounts to His worship.
All the men adore God, O saints, but the worship of an apostate is approved not.
If man dies through the Name, his mind becomes immaculate. Such a worship becomes acceptable to the Lord, O saints.
Pure immaculate and truthful are the persons, who profess love for the One Lord.
Without the Name, there can be no other worship of God. In vain, the world strays in doubt.
The pious person understands his ownself and fixes his attention on the Lord's Name, O saints.
The Immaculate Lord Himself makes man adore Him. Through the Guru's word this worship becomes acceptable.
They who perform worship, but know not the way, are polluted with the love of another.
He, who gets resigned to the Guru, knows what worship is. Within his mind is enshrined the Lord's will.
O saints, he who accepts God's will, obtains all the comforts and in the end, the Name becomes his succourer.
He who understands not his ownself, O saints, he indulges in false self-praise.
He, who practises guile, him Death's Minister leaves not, Him He disgraces and goads on.
They, who have the Lord's Name within their mind, realise their self and they alone know the way of emancipation.
This soul of their enters into the seedless trance and their Light is absorbed in the supreme Light.
Associating with the society of the saints, the Guru-wards listen, hear and utter the Name.
The God-conscious being hymns God's praise, effaces his self-conceit and obtains honour at the True Court.
True is his speech, tells he the truth and it is the True Name that he loves.
My Lord is the Dispeller of dread, the Destroyer of sin and the Succourer in the end.
All by Himself, the Lord is pervading everywhere. Through His Name alone is mortal's glory, O Nanak.
Ramkali 3rd Guru.
I am fool, filthy and very proud. Receiving the Lord's Name, my pollution is eradicated.
O saints, the Guru-wards are emancipated by the Name.
The True Name abides in their mind and Creator Himself embellishes them. Pause.
Touching the philosopher's stone they themselves ultimately become philosopher's stone and the reverend Lord showers His benediction on them.
Some wear sectarian dresses and wander about in pride. They lose their life-game in gamble.
Some, night and day, ever perform Lord's service and keep the Lord's Name clasped to their heart.
They, who are ever imbued with the Lord, remain intoxicated in equipoise and easily still their self-conceit.
Without the Lord's fear, His devotional service can be performed not ever. Through the Lord's love-in-fear. His worship is bedecked.
Through the Lord's Name, the attachment of the worldly valuables is burnt and the mortal reflects on the quintessence of gnosis.
The Creator Himself makes man perform His service and Himself blesses him with the Name treasure.
Of His virtues, I can know not the limit, I hymn His praise and reflect on His Name.
Stilling my ego from within me, I remember and praise the sire Lord, my sire Lord.
It is from the Guru, that the Name's wealth is obtained. Inexhaustible are the True Lord's treasures.
The Lord Himself is compassionate to His saints, By His grace, He installs His might within them.
They ever hunger for the True Name and hymn and reflect on the Guru's word.
My soul and body all belong to Him, hard is whose narration and meditation.
The men, who are attached to the Name are delivered and they cross the dreadful world-ocean.
Without the True Lord none can cross the sea. Some rare divine, alone can understand this.
What is pre-ordained for man, that alone he obtains, Receiving the God's Name, he is embellished.
Imbued with the Gurbani, the body sparkles life Gold and loves only the True Name.
The Name-Nectar, with which the body remains fully-filled, is attained to by reflecting on the Gurbani.
They, who search the Lord, obtain Him, others burst to death in their own self-conceit.
The disputant are wasted away and the slave enshrine love and affection for the Guru and serve their Lord.
He alone is a Yogi, who deliberates over the quintessence of gnosis and obliterates his self-conceit and desire.
To Him alone is the beneficent True Guru revealed, on whom is Thy grace, O Lord.
The proud persons, who serve not the True Guru and are attached to riches are drowned to death.
As long as there is breath in thee, so long serve thou thy Lord, Thus shalt thou go and meet God, the Slyer of Mur-demon,
The darling bride, who loves her Beloved, ever remains wakeful, day and night.
I tender, dedicate and devote my body and soul unto my Guru and am ever a sacrifice unto him.
Wealth and worldly love shall perish. It is by contemplating the Name that one is saved.
They alone, whom the Lord Himself awakens, remain awake, deliberating over the Guru's hymns.
Nanak, they alone are dead, who remember not the Name, Through the Lord's meditation, the saints live for ever.
Ramkali 3rd Guru.
Receiving the Name treasure from the Guru, I now remain sated and satiated.
O saints, it is through the Guru, that the status of salvation is obtained.
Within my mind abides the one Name, Such is the glory of my Perfect Lord. Pause.
The Lord Himself is the Creator, Himself the Enjoyer and Himself he gives sustenance to all.
Whatever He has to do, that He is doing. No one else can do anything.
The Lord Himself fashions and creates the creation and Himself yokes each one to his task.
If thou meditate on Him, then alone shalt thou obtain peace and the True Guru shall unite thee in the Lord's Union.
His ownself, the Lord Himself creates, He, the Unseen Lord, can be seen not.
The Lord Himself destroys and Himself creates. He has not even an iota of avarice.
Some He has made givers and some the beggars. The Lord Himself yokes man to His devotional service.
Very fortune are they who know the one alone and remain absorbed in the True Lord.
The Lord Himself is Beauteous and Himself wise. His worth can be uttered not.
God Himself infuses pain and pleasure within the mortal and Himself strays him in doubt in utter darkness.
The great giver is known through the Guru. Without the Guru, the world wanders about in utter darkness.
They, who taste the Name-Nectar enjoy its relish. The True Guru imparts this understanding.
Some, the Lord Himself causes to miss His Name and to some He reveals it through the Guru.
Ever, ever praise thine Lord, O saints, Great is His greatness.
Without Him there is no other King. he alone has made the me and it is he, who ministers justice.
Ever just is His justice, Rare is the One, whom He makes walk in His well.
O mortal, ever meditate thou on Him, who, through the Guru, has shown the way to obey His will.
He, who meets with the True Guru and within whose mind is enshrined the Name; that man is emancipated.
Eternally True is the True Lord Himself, Through the Guru's hymns, He preaches His Divine word.
Nanak is wonder-struck, hearing and beholding his Lord. My Lord is contained amongst all the places.
Ramkali 5th Guru. Ashatpadis
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Some one makes a display of his worldly wealth.
Some one exhibits his worship.
Some one practises his inner-washing and breath-control through snake-like coiled route.
But I, the poor one, contemplate my Lord God alone.
I only lean on Thee, O my Beloved.
I know not any other way or religious garb. Pause.
Abandoning his home, some one makes his abode in the forest tract.
One call himself a silent anchoret.
One declares that he is the worshipper of the One Lord alone,
I, the meek one, have sought the protection of the Lord-Master.
Some one says that he abides at a place of pilgrimage.
Forsaking food grains, some one says, he has become a recluse.
Some one has wandered through the whole earth.
I, the poor one, have prostrated myself before my Lord-Master's door.
One says that he belongs to a great Family.
One says that he has many arms of his brothers to stand by him.
One says that he has great manifestation of fortune.
I, the meek one, have the God's Name as my prop.
Some one dances, wearing small anklets.
Some one vows to fast and wear a rosary.
Some one applies the frontal mark of the yellow earth of a pool near Dwarka.
I, the poor one, contemplate over my Lord-Master's Name alone.
One practises many miracles and spells.
Some wear various religious garbs and establish worship stations.
Some perform good many charms and spells.
I, the humble one, serve my God, the Lord Master.
Some one calls himself a wise Brahman.
Some one worships Shiva as well along with performing six rituals.
One performs religious rites and good deeds.
I, the humble one, have entered the sanctuary of God, the Lord master.
I have scrutinized the deeds and faiths of all ages.
Without the Name, this soul awakens not.
Says Nanak, when I found the saints,
my desire was quenched and I was immensely cooled.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
He, who fashioned thee out of this drop of water,
He, who gathering dust did make thy temple of body.
He, who infused in thee the light of reason, wisdom and discrimination,
and He who preserved thee within thy mother's womb;
O man, remember thou thy Protector-Lord.
Give thou up all other thoughts, One man. Pause.
He, who gave the father and mother,
who gave thee charming Brothers and sons,
and who blessed thee with wife and friends;
enshrine thou that Lord in thy mind.
He, who gave thee invaluable air,
who blessed thee with the priceless water,
and who gave thee fire to burn;
O man, remain thou under that Lord's protection.
He, who gave thee thirty-six sorts of ambrosial food,
who made within thee a place to contain them,
and who blessed thee with the earth and the goods to use,
place thou that Lord's Feet in thy mind.
He, who gave thee eyes to see and ears to hear,
who gave thee hands to work, nose to smell and tongue to taste,
blessed thee with feet to walk and who made thy head to crown all;
O man, worship thou the feet of that Lord.
He, who made thee pure from being impure,
and placed thee over the head of all the species.
Now thou mayest chasten thy self or chasten not.
O man, thy affair shall be arranged by reflecting on the Lord.
Here and there, there is but the One Lord.
Withersoever I see, thither I find Thee, O Lord.
My soul is sluggish to serve Him,
by forgetting whom, it cannot do even for an instant.
I am virtueless sinner, O my Lord.
I serve Thee not, nor do I good deeds.
By great good fortune I have found the Guru's boat.
Slave Nanak, a stone has crossed the world-ocean by associating with the saints.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
The life of some passes, enjoying revelments, relish and beauty.
The life of some passes in the love of their mother, father and the sons.
The life of some passes engrossed in empire estate or trade.
The saints life passes in the prop of the Lord's name.
The world is the creation of the True Lord.
He alone is the Master of all. Pause.
Some pass their life in strife and in the study of religious scriptures.
Some pass their life tasting the tongue's relishes.
Some pass their life attached to women.
The saints are absorbed in only the Lord's Name.
Some pass their life in playing the game of chance.
Some pass their life in remaining a tippler.
Some pass their life thieving others wealth.
God's slave's life passes contemplating the Name.
Some pass their life practising Yog, penance and worship.
Some are engrossed in maladies, grief and doubts.
The life of some passes in holding breath.
The saints' life passes in hymning the Lord's praise.
Some pass their life walking day and night.
Some pass their life occupying the battle-field.
Some pass their life teaching the Children.
The life of the Saint passes singing God's praise.
Some pass their life dancing in actor's roles or in dramas.
Some pass their life slaying the living beings.
Some pass their life alarmed in sovereignty.
The saints pass their life uttering God's praise.
Some pass their life advising and counseling others.
Some pass their life in the desire of service.
Some pass their life reforming other men's lives.
The saint passes his life quaffing the Lord's elixir.
With whatever Thou yokest anyone, to that he is yoked.
None is foolish, nor is any one wise,
Extending Thy mercy whomsoever Thou blessest with Thy Name;
onto him Nanak is devoted and dedicated.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
As even in the forest fire, some trees remain green,
as the child is, some day, relieved from the anguish of the mother's womb,
remembering whose Name fear is dispelled,
so does God, the King, saves the saintly persons.
Such is my Protector, Merciful Master.
Withersoever I see, thither I see Thee sustaining all, o my Lord. Pause.
As thirst is quenched by drinking water,
as the bride blooms When her groom returns home.
As wealth is the mainstay of the life of the greedy man,
So does the God's slave cherish love for the Lord-Master's Name.
As the guardsman guards his crop,
as mother and father are compassionate to their child,
as the lover merges in the beloved on seeing;
so the Lord keeps clasped to His bosom His devoted slave.
As a blind-man is pleased if he begins to see;
As the mute one feels happy uttering and singing many songs;
As the cripple is overjoyed, crossing a mountain;
Similarly the Lord's Name emancipates all.
As cold is destroyed with fire,
so are the sins obliterated in the society of saints.
As the soap cleanses the cloth;
So remembering the Name, all the doubts and dreads are dispelled.
As the shell-duck longs for the sun,
as the pied-cuckoo thirsts for the rain drop,
and as the deer's ears are merged in the music,
so is the God's Name pleasing to the mind of the God's slave.
By Thine grace, O Lord, Thy love is enshrined.
When Thou becomest merciful, then alone Thou art contemplated.
When He, the Upholder of the earth showered His benediction,
then alone was I relieved of my entanglements.
Opening my eyes, I have seen all the places.
Without His, there is not any other.
By Guru's grace my doubt and dread are dispelled.
Nanak sees the Wondrous Lord everywhere.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
All the sentient beings, that are seen, are wholly upheld by Thee, O my Lord.
Thine soul is, emancipated through the Lord's Name. Pause.
In an instant, He establishes and disestablishes the creation. All these are the deeds of the Creator.
Lust, wrath, avarice, falsehood and slander are banished in the saints' association
Contemplating the Name, the mind becomes immaculate and one's life passes in utter peace.
The mortal, who enters the sanctuary of the Lord's slave; He loses not here, nor hereafter.
My weal, woe and the condition of this mind, I place before Thee o my Lord.
Thou art the Beneficent Lord of all the beings and cherishes what Thou has created.
Many myriad times, Nanak is a sacrifice unto Thine slaves, O Lord.
Ramkali 5th Guru. Ashatpadi.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Having the vision of my Guru, all the sins are eradicated and he unites me with my Lord.
My Guru-God is the giver of Peace.
He implants the Supreme Lord's Name in me and shall be my helper in the end. Pause.
Applying the dust of the saints' feet to my face, the seat of all the paints within me is destroyed.
In an instant, the Guru purifies the sinners and dispels the darkness of ignorance.
The Lord is Omnipotent to do all the Lord's Nanak has sought His protection.
Shattering the shackles, the Guru enshrines the Lord's lotus-feet in the mortal's mind and attunes him to the one Name.
The Guru has pulled me out of the blind well of sins and I am now attached with the True Lord.
The fear of birth and death is now over and I shall no more wander anywhere.
This soul of mine is imputed with the cure all of the Name and is satiated drinking the Name Nectar.
Associating with the society of saints, I hymn the Lord's; praise and abide in the permanent place.
The Perfect Guru has given me perfect counsel, that without God, there is not another, O brother.
By the supreme good fortune I have received the Name treasure and so shall not fall into hell, O Nanak.
I possess not service, wisdom and skill, but act on the Perfect Guru's instruction.
To lean on that Lord is my meditation, penance, self-control and purity. he Himself does and causes everything to be done. Without His, there is not any other.
Whilst abiding in the midst of sons, wife and the supremely sinful world, the True Guru has ferried me across.
Thou Thyself takest care of Thine beings and Thyself attachest them to Thy skirt.
To cross the horrible world ocean, I have built the boat of true faith.
Inestimable and infinite is the Lord. Nanak is devoted and a sacrifice unto Him.
Thou art the Unborn, self-illumined and immortal Being. Thou alone illuminest the pitch dark Kalage.
Thou art the Searcher of hearts and the Beneficent Lord of the sentient beings. Seeing Thee I am sated and satiated.
Thou art the Unique, Immaculate and fear-free Lord and art pervading all the earth and water.
Thou blesseth Thine Saints with the gift of Thy meditation. Nanak too begs of Thee, O Lord, my Mother.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Slok.
Contemplate thou the Lord's Name, O my dear. It is the mortal's mainstay in life and death.
Meditating on the One Lord, O Nanak, thy face shall sparkle and thou shalt ever be happy.
My soul and body are imbued with my Beloved Lord, O saints and God's devotional service is pleasing unto me.
By the grace of the True Guru, my merchandise has been approved, O saints.
The Guru has blessed me, his slave, with the profit of the Lord's Name and all my thirst is quenched, O saints. Pause.
Searching and searching, I have found God, the gem, whose worth I can utter not, O saints.
My attention is fixed with the Lord's lotus feet and I am absorbed in the True Lord's vision, O saints.
Singing and hymning God's praise, I am enraptured and by meditating on the Lord I am sated and satiated, O saints.
The All-pervading soul is contained amongst all, Where, where can my mind wander and go now.
He is, since the beginning and the beginning of ages, He is, shall also be and is the Peace-giving Lord of all the beings, O saints.
Limitless is He Himself and His limit can be known not, He is full-filling all places, O saints.
Says Nanak, o saints, God alone is my friend, intimate, wealth, youth, son, father and mother.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
By thought, word and deed, contemplate I the Lord's Name.
Very arduous is the great whirlpool of the world. It is by the Guru's grace, that I have ferried it across, O Nanak. Pause.
Within and without me is all peace and pleasure. By meditating on God, all the miscreants have been crushed.
He, through whom the maladies had clung to me, has rid me of them. The Sire Lord has extended His mercy unto me.
Seeking the Lord's protection, the saints are saved. The very proud persons putrefy and perish.
I have the mainstay of the One Name alone. This is the fruit, I have gathered from the society of saints.
None is strong, nor anyone is weak, All are the manifestation of Thy light, O Lord.
Thou, O Lord art omnipotent, Ineffable and beyond comprehension. The one Lord, the Enemy of pride is pervading all.
Who can appraise Thy worth, O Creator. No one knows the Lord's end or limit.
My Lord, bless Thou Nanak with the greatness of the gift of Thy Name and the dust of the feet of Thine saintly persons.
Ramkali 3rd Guru. Anand.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Joy has welled up, O my mother, for I have obtained my True Guru.
The True Guru, I have found with ease and within my mind resounds the music of bliss.
The gem like measures and their families, have come to hymn the Guru's word.
They, who enshrine the Lord in their mind, sing the Gurbani of the Lord.
Says Nanak, joy has ensued and I have attained to the True Guru.
O my soul, ever abide thou with thy Lord.
Ever abide thou with thy God, O my soul and He shall make thee forget all sufferings.
He Shall own thee and shall arrange all thine affairs.
The Lord is Omnipotent to do all things. Why Forget Him from thy mind?
Says Nanak, O my soul, abide thou with thy God.
O my True Lord, what is that which Thou has not in Thy home?
Within Thy home is everything, but he alone receives it, whom Thou givest.
He, who enshrines Thy Name in his mind ever hymns Thine praise and excellences, O Lord.
Many strains of rejoicing play of him in whose mind the Lord's Name abides.
Says Nanak, O my True Lord, what is that, which is not in Thy mansion?
The True Name is my only support.
The True Name, which has satisfied all my hunger, is my only support.
Abiding in my mind, the Name has blessed me with peace and pleasure and fulfilled all my desires.
I am eve a sacrifice unto my Guru, who possesses such like excellences.
Says Nanak, hearken ye, O saints, profess ye love for the Lord's Gurbani.
The True Name is my only support.
The five forms of music ring in that very fortunate house.
In that very fortunate house(heart) into which the Lord has infused His might resound the strains.
O Lord, Thou makest man control the five demons and slyest the agonising death
They, whose destiny Thou hast so pre-ordained, O Lord, are attached to Thy Name.
Says Nanak, they obtain peace and in their heart-home plays the celestial strain.
Without the true love, unhonoured is this body.
Bereft of the Lord's love, unhonoured is the human body. What can this poor thing do?
Without Thee, none else is omnipotent, Show Thou mercy unto me, O Lord of the Forest.
This body has no other place of rest than the Name, Attaching to the Name, it is embellished.
Says Nanak, what can the wretched body (Creature) do without the Lord's Love?
All talk of bliss and bliss, but the Real bliss is known only through the Guru.
When one knows eternal bliss from the Guru, then the Loved-Lord shows His mercy unto him.
In His mercy the Lord cuts away his sins and blesses him with the slave of Divine knowledge.
They, who from their mind drive away worldly love; their speech the True Lord embellishes.
Says Nanak, this alone is the bliss, that bliss which the mortal can obtain only from the Guru.
O Father, that man alone obtains bliss, whom Thou givest, O Lord.
That man alone attains to it, whom Thou blesseth with it, What can other poor mortals do?
Some stray in doubt and wander in ten directions. Some are bedecked by attachment to the Lord's Name.
By Guru's grace, Immaculate becomes the mind of those, to whom the Lord's will is agreeable.
Says Nanak, O Love; that person alone obtains bliss whom Thou give.
Come, O dear saints, let us utter the discourse of the ineffable Lord.
Let us speak of the Ineffable Lord, By what means can we find Him?
Surrender all your body, soul and wealth unto the Guru and submit to his will, thus shall you obtain the Lord.
Obey ye the Guru's order and sing ye the True Gurbani.
Says Nanak, hearken O ye saints, narrate ye the inexpressible anecdote of the Lord.
O my mercurial mind, no one has ever obtained the Lord through cleverness.
By cleverness no one has obtained God, hearken thou, O my soul!
Fascinating is this mammon, which has so much strayed the mortal in doubt.
This charming mammon too is the creation of Him, who has spread the illusion.
I make myself a sacrifice unto Him, who has rendered unto Him, who has rendered worldly love sweet to the mortals.
Says Nanak, O fickle man, none has ever obtained God by cleverness.
O my loved soul, ever contemplate thou the True one.
This family, which thou see, shall not go with thee.
It shall no depart with thee, Why fix thou thy mind therewith?
Do thou not ever such deed, of which thou may have to repent in the end.
Hear thou the True Guru's instruction, which shall go along with thee.
Says Nanak, O my dear mortal ever meditate thou on the True Lord.
O my Inaccessible and Inapprehensible Lord, Thine limit can be known not.
No one has found Thy end, Thou alone knowest Thine ownself.
Men and other creatures are all Thy sport. BY what words can anyone describe and narrate Thee.
It is Thou, who created the world and who speakest and seest all.
Says Nanak, Thou, O Lord, art ever beyond reach. Thine end can be found not.
The angelic persons and the silent sages search for the Divine Nectar, That Nectar I have obtained from the Guru.
He, to whom the Guru shows mercy, obtains the Nectar and keeps the True Lord enshrined in his mind.
All the sentient beings Thou has created, O Lord, but so rare ones who see the Guru and seek his protection.
His greed, avarice and egotism are dispelled and the True Guru seems sweet unto him.
Says Nanak, he with whom the Lord is pleased, obtains the Name nectar through the Guru.
Peculiar is the way of life of the saints.
Peculiar is the way of life of the saints. They tread the difficult path.
They renounce avarice, covetousness, pride and talk not much.
They go by this road which is sharper than the two-edged sword and finer than a hair.
They, who shed their self-conceit by Guru's grace, their aspiration merges in the Lord.
Says Nanak, wondrous is the way of the Lord's slaves in every age.
As Thou makest me walk, so do I walk, O Lord, what more can I know of Thine merits?
They whom Thou puttest on Thy path; as Thou makest them walk, so do they walk.
They whom Thou, in Thy mercy, appliest to Thy Name, ever reflect on Thee, O my Lord-Gold.
He, whom Thou makest hear Thine discourse gathers peace from the Guru's door.
Says Nanak, O my True Lord, Thou makest men walk, as Thou pleasest.
This beauteous Gurbani is all praise of the Lord.
This beauteous Gurbani, uttered by the True Guru is the Eternal Lord's praise.
This Gurbani is enshrined in the minds of those, why are so destined by the Primal Being.
Some go about walking much but no one obtains the Lord by babbling.
Says Nanak, the True Guru has revealed the beauteous Gurbani to the world.
Pure become the persons, who meditate on the Lord.
They who by Guru's grace contemplate God, contemplate God, are rendered immaculate.
They are pure with their mother, father, family and good friends and all their associates are pure as well.
They who utter God's Name are holy, they who hear it are holy and holy are they who treasure it in their mind.
Says Nanak, pious are they, who under the Guru's instruction, ponder over the Lord-Master.
By rituals, Divine knowledge is produced not and without Divine knowledge doubt does not depart.
Doubt departs not by any contrivance. People have grown weary of performing ceremonial rites.
Through doubt the soul is rendered filthy. By what means can it be cleansed?
Attaching thyself to the Name, wash thou thy soul and continue to fix thy mid on God.
Says Nanak, by Guru's grace, Divine knowledge wells up and thus is this doubt dispelled.
Foul within and fair without.
They, who are pure without and filthy within, lose their life in gamble.
They contract this dire disease of greed and in their mind, forget death.
The Name is the best thing in the Vedas. That they hear not and wander like demons.
Says Nanak, they, who forsake truth and cling to falsehood, lose their life in gamble.
Fair within and fair without.
They, who are pure without and pure within, do good deeds through the True Guru.
Even the very intelligence of falsehood reaches them not and their desire is merged in truth.
They, who earn the jewel of human birth, are the most excellent merchants.
Says Nanak, they whose mind is pure abide ever with the Lord.
If any disciple becomes truly faithful to the Guru;
If any sikh turns towards his Guru, his soul abides with the Guru.
He heartily meditate on the Guru's feet and remembers him in his mind.
Renouncing his self-conceit, he remains ever on the side of the Guru. Without the Guru, he knows not any other.
Says Nanak, hear, O saints, such a disciple turns towards the Guru.
If anyone turns away from the Guru; then he obtains not salvation without the True Guru.
He shall obtain not salvation any where else. Go and consult the men of discrimination.
He shall wander in many existences and obtain not deliverance without the True Guru.
He shall ultimately acquire emancipation, attaching himself to the feet of the True Guru, when he shall recite to him the Lord's Name.
Says Nanak, reflect over this and see that without the True Guru, deliverance is attained not.
Come ye the beloved disciples of the True Guru and sing the True hymns of the Guru.
Sing ye the word of the Guru. which word is the most sublime of all the words.
Gurbani enters the mind of those, on whom the Lord casts His merciful glance.
Quaff thou Nectar, ever abide in God's love and reflect on God, the Earth-Sustainer.
Says Nanak, ever hymn thou, this true word of the Guru.
Without the True Guru, all other word is false.
Without the True Guru every other word is false. All other sermons are but false.
False are the utterers, false the hearers, false the reciters and false their authors.
With their tongue they ever utter the Lord God's Name, but they realise not in the least what they say.
They, whose mind is lured by mammon, continue reciting fluently and mechanically.
Says Nanak, without the True Guru all other gospel is false.
Guru's word is a jewel, which is studded with emeralds.
He, whose mind is attached to this jewel of Gurbani, merges in it.
When man's mind is attuned to the word, he comes to enshrine affection for the True Lord.
The Lord Himself is the jewel and Himself the emerald. To whomsoever He blesses with Gurbani, to him He explains its worth.
Says Nanak, Guru's words is a jewel, which is enchased with emerald.
Himself creating mind and matter, the Creator subjects them to His command.
The Lord enforces His order, He Himself sees all, Through the Guru, He makes some rare one know Him.
He bursts his bonds, obtains emancipation and enshrines the Lord's Name in his mind.
He, whom the Lord Himself makes holy, becomes so and fixes his attention on the One Lord.
Says Nanak, God Himself is the Creator and Himself reveals His will.
The Simritis and Shastras discriminate between good and evil, but know not the essence of the Real Thing.
Without the Guru, they know not the essence of the Reality, know not the essence of the Reality.
The world is asleep in three modes and doubt, and in slumber its night(life) passes away.
By Guru's grace, only those mortals keep awake, in whose mind the Lord abides and who utter the Nectar-word.
Says Nanak, he alone obtains quintessence, who ever remains merged in the Lord's love and passes his life-night awake.
In our mind, why should we forget Him, who cherishes us in the mother's womb?
Why should we forsake from our mind such a great Beneficent Lord, who reaches us sustenance in the midst of fire?
Nothing can harm him whom the Lord blesses with His love.
His love, He Himself makes man embrace. By Guru's grace, ever remember thou the such Lord.
Says Nanak, why should we from our mind forget that such a great Beneficent Lord?
As is the fire of womb within, so is the fire of mammon (Maya) without.
The fires of worldly valuable and of the womb are all the same. The Creator has set agoing this play.
When it pleases His, then is the child born and the family is well pleased.
The Lord's Love departs, greed attaches to the child and mammon's writ begins to run.
Such is this mammon, by which the Lord is forgotten, worldly love wells up and one is attached to the love of another.
Says Nanak, they, who enshrine love for the Lord, by Guru's grace, obtain the Lord in the midst of mammon.
Himself the Lord is invaluable, His price can be ascertained not.
His price cannot be ascertained by anyone, though people have been wailing for that.
If thou meet such a True Guru, who will dispel thy self-conceit from within thee, entrust thou thy head to him.
Thus shalt thou remain united with Him, who owns thy soul and God shall come to abide in thy mind.
God Himself is priceless. Fortunate are they, O Nanak, who attain to the Lord.
The Lord is my capital-stock and my mind is the merchant.
God is my capital and my mind is the merchant. Through the True Guru, I have known my capital.
Ever utter thou the Lord's Name O my soul and thou shalt daily gain profit.
They, who are pleasing to their God, attain to this wealth.
Says Nanak, God is my stock-in-trade and my soul is the trader.
O my tongue, thou art engrossed in other relishes. Thy thirst departs not.
Thy thirst shall not depart by any means, until thou attainest to the Lord's elixir.
If thou obtain the Lord's elixir and drink the Lord's elixir, thirst shall not again affect thee.
By God's grace, this elixir of God is obtained by him, whom the True Guru comes to meet.
Says Nanak, when the Lord comes to abide in man's mind, he forgets all other relishes.
O my body! God placed His Light into thee and then thou didst come into this world.
The Lord put His Light into thee and then didst thou come in this world.
God Himself is the Mother and Himself the Father, Who creating man has shown him the world.
When one realises the reality, by Guru's grace, then to him this world is a show and appears to be but a show.
Says Nanak, the Lord laid the foundation of the universe, infused His Light within thy body and then thou calmest into the world.
My soul is in ecstasy, hearing the coming of my Lord.
Sing ye, the songs of rejoicing to welcome my Lord, O my mates. My house has now become my Lord's mansion.
Ever sing ye the songs of welcome to my God, O mates, and sorrow and suffering shall cling ye not.
Very fortunate is the day when I am attached to the Guru's feet and reflect on my beloved.
By Guru's instruction, I have realised the unbeaten music and enjoy the Divine relish of God's Name.
Says Nanak, the Lord Himself, who is potent to do all deeds, has met me.
O my body, what deed hats thou done by coming into this world?
What deed hats thou done, O body of mine, since thou came into this world?
He, the Lord, who didst make thy make; That Lord thou hast not enshrined in thy mind.
By Guru's grace, the Lord abides within my mind and I obtain what is pre-destined for me.
Says Nanak, this body of him, who attaches his mind to the True Guru, becomes acceptable.
O mine yes, God has infused light in ye. Without the Lord, see ye not another, therefore.
Save the Lord, see ye not any other. The Merciful Master-Lord alone is worthy of beholding.
This entire world, which ye behold is the Lord's manifestation. God's image alone is seen in it.
By Guru's grace, when I realise the reality, I perceive but one God. Without the Lord, there is not any other.
Says Nanak, these eyes were blind, on meeting the True Guru, they have become omniscient.
O cars of mine, ye were sent to hear the True Name.
Ye were sent and attached to the body to hear the True Name. Hear ye, the True word;
Hearing which the soul and body are revived and the tongue is absorbed in the Name-Nectar.
The true Lord is Invisible and Wondrous. His state can, be told not.
Says Nanak, hear ye the Nectar-Name and become immaculate. Ye O ears, were sent to hear the True Name.
Placing the soul in the body cave, the Lord began to blow the musical instrument of breath into it.
He blew the musical instrument of breath, made the nine doors manifest and the tenth He has kept concealed.
Through the Guru, blessing some with faith, He shows the tenth gate.
The Lord of manifold forms and the Name's nine treasures are there. His limit can be found not.
Says Nanak, putting the soul in the body-cave, the beloved Lord has blown the breath in it is a musical instrument.
Sing thou this true song of the Lord's praise, in the true home of thy soul.
Sing thou the song of God's praise in the true home, where the saints ever contemplate the True Lord.
When they become pleasing to Thee and to whom Thou givest understanding, through the Guru, they meditate on Thee, O my True Lord.
This truth is the over-Lord of all. That man alone obtains it, whom He blesses.
Says Nanak, hymn thou this true song of bliss in the true home of thy soul.
Listen ye to 'word of bliss, O very fortunate ones and all your longings shall be fulfilled.
I have obtained Lord the Supreme Being and all my sorrows have departed.
Hearing the True Gurbani, I am rid of the troubles, maladies and sufferings.
The saints and friends have become happy on knowing it from the Perfect Guru.
Immaculate are the hearers and pure the utters and they see the True Guru all-pervading.
Prays Nanak, repairing to the Guru's Feet, the unblown bugles play for the mortal.
Ramkali, The call of death.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
He is the Beneficent Lord of. His devotees in the three worlds.
He who is merged in the Guru's word, knows not another without the Lord.
Under the Guru's instruction, he knows not another and contemplates the one Name.
By the grace of Guru Nanak and Guru Angad, Amardas obtained the supreme status.
When the call came for him to depart, Guru Amardas was absorbed in the Lord God's Name.
In this world, by meditation, he obtained the Imperishable, Immovable and Immeasurable Lord-God.
God's will, the Guru gladly accepted and the Guru reached the Lord God's presence.
The True Guru prays to his God "Save Thou mine honour. This alone is my supplication".
My Immaculate Lord-Master, protect Thou the honour of Thy slave and bless him with Thy Name.
At this time of final departure, Thy Name alone is my succourer and destroys death and death's myrmidons.
The Lord God heard the supplication and granted the True Guru's request.
Extending His mercy, God blended the True Guru with Himself and said "Blessed! blessed! bravo!"
Hearken, O my disciples, sons and brothers, my God wills that I now go to Him.

He alone is the devotee of the True Guru and the sublime person to whom the Master's will is pleasing.
The Unbeaten musical instruments joyously play and God Himself embraces the Guru to His bosom.
Ye, O my sons, brothers and kindreds, carefully discriminate in your mind and see.
The Lord's writ (Death-warrant) can be returned not uncompiled with and the Guru goes to God.
The Guru of his own sweet will sat up and called his family.
Let no one weep for me, after I am gone. That is not at all pleasing to me.
When the friend receives a robe of honour, then the friends, who desire their friend's who desire their friend's honour, are pleased.
Consider and see, ye my sons and brothers, if it is good to wail, when the Lord is clothing the True Guru with a robe of honour.
The True Guru sat up and in his presence himself appointed the successor to his spiritual throne.
He made all his sikhs, relations, sons and brethren fall and the feet of Ramdas.
In the end the True Guru said "After me sing the praise of the Pure Lord, alone".
Call-in only saints of the Lord of beauteous hair, instead of Pandit and read God's gospel instead of Puran.
Read only the God's gospel, hear only the God's Name, the Guru likes the Lord's love, instead of the lofty bier,
barley rolls, food on leaves, Hindu funeral rites, lamps and throwing the bones into the Ganges.
The True Guru spoke, as it pleased God and he got blended with God, the Omniscient Lord.
The Guru blessed Ramdas Sodhi with the Guru's status, which is the token of being the embodiment of the True Lord.
As spoke the Divine True Guru, so the Gursikhs obeyed his will.
His son Mohri became obedient to him and he made him fall at the feet of Ramdas.
Then all fell at the feet of the True Guru, where the Guru had enshrined his spirit.
If anyone, through spite bowed not; Him the True Guru afterwards brought to bow before Ramdas.
It pleased the Guru-God to bestow magnificence on Ramdas, Such was the pre-ordained writ of the Lord of will.
Says Sunder: hearken, o saints, the whole world fell at Ramdas' feet.
Ramkali 5th Guru. Chhant.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Friend, my Friend, standing close to me is my Friend.
My Beloved, God my Beloved, with mine eyes, I have seen God, my Beloved.
With mine eyes I have seen my supremely Sweet, Profound Beloved reclining on the couch of every heart.
The Lord is with all, but the mortal can find Him not, His relishes fool knows not.
Inebriated with the ego of riches, he talks of trivial things and siding with illusion, he can meet not with his Lord.
Says Nanak, without the Guru man can behold not God, the Friend, standing near all.
O Lord, O my Lord, Thou art the support of my life-breath.
O Merciful Master; O my Merciful Master, the giver of gifts art Thou, O my Merciful Master.
God, the Giver of gifts, is infinite and lllimitable and looks beauteous in every heart.
He has created mammon, His hand-maiden, which is powerfully affecting all and which has bewitched the sentient beings.
He, whom the Lord saves, utters the True Name and reflects on the Guru's word.
Says Nanak, he who is pleasing to the Lord; to him the Lord seems sweet.
I take pride, I take pride on the Lord, and on my Lord take I pride.
All-wise, All-wise is the Lord and my Lord is Accomplished and All-wise.
The Lord is Wise, Omniscient and ever supreme Nectar-sweet is His Name.
They, who have good destiny recorded on their brow, remain sated, quaffing the Name of the Earth-sustainer.
They contemplate the Lord and they alone obtain Him. Their entire pride rests in Him.
Says Nanak, the Lord is seated on His ever-stable throne and true is His court.
The song of bliss, in my Master's mansion is heard the song of eternal bliss.
The praise, the Lord's praise, incessantly resounds my Lord's praise.
Such is the Lord's mansion, where the melody of the musical instruments spontaneously rings and rejoicing takes place for ever.
Contemplating that Lord, every thing is obtained. He does not die or come and go.
Meeting with the absolute Lord, by Guru's grace, thirst is quenched and hopes are realised.
Says Nanak, in the home of my Lord, songs of rejoicing are heard for ever and aye.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Meditate on the Lord Master, O man and forget Him not even for an instant.
Install thou thy Omnipresent Lord Master God in thy throat and mind.
Within thy mind, place thou thy powerful, pervading and pure Transcendent Lord Master God.
He is the dispeller of dread, the Destroyer of sins and the Remover of the Unbearable worldly sufferings.
Contemplate thou the merits of the Master, who is the Lord of the world, the cherisher of creation, the over Lord of wealth and the Ruler of the Universe.
Prays Nanak, associating with the saints, day and night remember thou the Lord.
The Lord's lotus feet are the refuge and mainstay of His serf.
Within his mind he places the Infinite Lord's Name and this alone if his wealth, property and treasure.
They who treasure the God's Name, enjoy the relish of their unique Lord.
Instead of enjoying dainties, revelments and beauty, with their every breath, they meditate on the Infinite Lord.
The Lord's Name is destroyer of sins and the only deed of expiation. It is the Name, which drives away the dread of death,
Prays Nanak, the support of the Lord's lotus feet is the capital of His slave.
Countless are Thine excellences, O my Lord. No one can ever know them.
Seeing and hearing of Thine wondrous plays, O Merciful Master, Thy saints narrate them.
All the sentient beings reflect on Thee, O Transcendent Lord, the Master of men.
O God, the Embodiment of mercy and the Lord of the Universe, all are Thine mumpers and Thou alone art the One Donor.
He alone is pious, holy and wise, whom the sire Master accepts.
Prays Nanak, O Lord, unto whomsoever Thou showest mercy; He alone realises Thee.
I, the virtueless and patronless one, have sought Thine protection, O Lord.
A sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice am I unto my Guru-God, who has enshrined the Lord's Name within my mind.
The Guru has blessed me with the Name, happiness has welled up and all my desires are fulfilled.
My fire is quenched, I have obtained peace and after a long separation I have met my Lord.
Singing the meritorious supreme praise of the Lord, I have obtained true bliss, Pleasure and poise.
Supplicates Nanak, it is from the Perfect Guru, that I have attained to the Lord's Name.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
Arising early in the morn and associating with the morn and associating with the society of saints, daily hymn thou the melodious celestial strain.
Uttering the Lord's Name, by Guru's instruction all the sins and shortcomings are effaced.
Dwell thou on God's Name, quaff Nectar and remember it night and day.
Sticking to the Lord's lotus feet, mortal obtains the fruit of millions of yugas, charities and religious ceremonies.
The love-adoration of the enamouring Merciful Master, dispels all the faults.
Prays Nanak, contemplating Lord, the Man-lion, the mortal ferries across the world ocean.
Thine meditation, O world Lord is an ocean of peace, so Thy saints sing ever Thy praise.
Clinging to the Guru's feet, they obtain manifold mirths, glees and comforts.
Meeting with the Treasure of peace, their woos are past and showing His mercy, the Lord saves them.
Whosoever repairs to the God's Feet, His doubt and dread flee and with his tongue he utters the Lord's Name.
Then he thinks of One God, sings the praise of the One Lord and beholds but One God.
Beseeches Nanak, the Lord has shown mercy unto me and I have obtained the Perfect True Guru.
Meet thou with the Lord's holy men and in their company hear the Lord's praise.
My Merciful Master God is the Lord of wealth Of His virtues man can find not the end.
The compassionate Lord is the Dispeller of pain, the Giver of refuge and the Eradicator of all the ills.
Worldly Love, sorrow and agonising sins; From them, the Lord saves those who repeated His Name.
All the beings are Thine, O my Master. Bless me with Thy mercy, that I may become the dust of the feet of all.
Supplicates Nanak, my Lord, take pity on me, so that I may live contemplating Thy Name.
My Lord saves the pious persons, attaching them to His feet.
The eight watches through, they remember their Lord and contemplate only the Lord's Name.
Reflecting on that Lord, they cross the terrible world-ocean and end their comings and goings.
They ever enjoy pleasure, peace by hymning the Lord's praise and to them seems sweet the Lord's will.
Meeting with the Perfect True Guru all my desires are fulfilled and hopes realised.
Prays Nanak, the Lord has blended me with Himself and I shall no more suffer pain and sorrow.
Ramkali 5th Guru Chhant.
Slok.
Entering the sanctuary of the Lord's lotus feet, I celebrate the Lord's praise with peace and pleasure.
Nanak, meditate thou on Lord, the Lord, who is the Dispeller of calamity.
Chhant.
The Lord is the Eradicator of adversity Without Him, There is not any other.
Ever, ever contemplate thou thy God, who is contained in ocean, land and sky.
The Lord is fully filling ocean, land, under world and firmament. I forget Him not even for an instant, in my mind.
Supremely auspicious is the day, when I repaired to the Guru's feet, All this is an act of goodness of the Lord of the world.
O servant, day and night perform thou thy Lord's service. Whatever pleases Him, that alone happens.
Nanak is a sacrifice unto the Giver of Peace and his soul and body are illumined.
Slok.
Meditating on the Lord, the soul and body become comfortable and the thought of another is dispelled.
Nanak has sought the protection of the Cherisher of the world. The Lord of the Universe is the Destroyer of calamity.
Chhant.
The Merciful Master has effaced my dread and distress.
I joyfully sing the praise of the Lord God, who is the Cherisher and the Master of the meek.
Imperishable is my Unique Nurturer Lord. With His love am I imbued.
When I placed my hands and forehead on the Lord's Feet, He blended me with Himself and I became vigilant for ever aye.
To Him alone belongs my soul, body, home, abode, from, Youth, wealth and property.
Ever, ever Nanak is a sacrifice unto the Lord, who nurtures all the sentient being.
Slok.
My tongue repeats God's Name and utters the world-Lord's praise alone.
Nanak has taken hold of the protection of the One Supreme Lord al he shall save him in the end.
Chhant.
He, the Lord Master, is the only saviour. Attach thou thyself to His skirt.
Contemplate thou thy Merciful Master in the society of saints and shed thy mind's cleverness.
Seek thou the One Lord's support, surrender thy soul to Him and hope only in sustainer of the World.
All the persons, who are imbued with God's Name in the saints guild, cross the world-ocean.
They are rid of the sin of birth and death and no stigma attaches to them again.
Nanak is devoted unto the Perfect Lord, the Joy of union with whom is ever-stable.
Slok.
The Lord is the Giver of emancipation and the four cardinal boons of faith, wealth, success and salvation.
Nanak, he who has such a writ on his brow; all his desires are fulfilled.
Chhant.
Meeting with my Immaculate Lord, the King, all my aspirations are realised.
O very fortunate ones, bliss has welled up, as the sire Lords has become manifest in my home.
On account of my past deeds, my love has visited my home. How can I count His excellences?
Infinite and Omnipresent is my Lord, the Giver of peace and poise, With what tongue can I utter His virtues.
Taking Hold of me, the Lord has hugged me to His bosom and united me with Himself. Without Him, there is no other place of rest.
Nanak is ever devoted unto the Creator, who is contained amongst all.
Ramkali 5th Guru.
O my mates, melodiously sing ye the Lord's praise and contemplate one God
Serve ye, your True Guru, O my mates and obtain the Fruit of your heart's desire
Ramkali, 5th Guru. Salok of Seasons.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Make thou obeisance unto Lord, the Supreme Master and desire the dust of His saints' feet.
Shed thy self-conceit and utter thou the Lord's Name. The Lord is fully filling all, O Nanak.
God, the King, is the dispeller of sin, the destroyer of dread and the ocean of peace.
Merciful to the meek and the healer of pain, O Nanak, for ever contemplate Him.
Chhant
O very fortunate ones, sings ye the Lord's praise and the Auspicious master shall take pity on you.
Illustrious is the season, the month, the moment and the time, when the Lord's excellences are uttered.
Blessed are those persons, who are imbued with the love of the Lord's praise and who meditate on Him single-mindedly.
Fruitful becomes the life of those, who attain to that Lord.
Charities, alms and religious rites equal not the God's Name, which destroys all the sins.
Supplicates Nanak, I live by meditating on the Lord and my comings and goings have ended.
Slok.
Strive thou to meet with thy Inaccessible and Inapprehensible Lord and pay homage to His Lotus feet.
Says Nanak, that speech alone is pleasing to Thee, O Lord, which enjoins to seek the support of thy Name.
O friend, seek thou the protection of the saints and contemplate thy on infinite Lord.
Nanak, remembering the Fortunate Lord, thou shalt become green from being withered,
Chhant.
Delightful is the season of spring, The month of Chet and Baisakh are the pleasant months.
Obtaining Venerable Lord as my spouse, my soul, body and life have bloomed.
When the lotus feet of my heart-home, I am in bliss and flower afresh, O my mate.
The Lord of the world is Beauteous, Accomplished, Omniscient and All-knowing and invaluable are His virtues.
By great good fortune, I have obtained my Lord. Dispelled is my grief and fulfilled are mine hopes.
Prays Nanak, entering Thy sanctuary, O Lord, my fear of death is dispelled.
Slok.
Without the society of saints the woman (Sikh) dies wandering and performing various rituals.
She is bound in the soft bonds of the record of her past deeds, O Nanak.
They, who art pleasing to God; Them He unites with Himself. He Himself separates man from Him too.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the Lord, great is whose glory.
Chhant.
In the months of Jeth and Harh of the summer season, the heat is intensely season, the heat is intensely severe.
The discarded bride is separated from the love of her Groom and the Lord sees her not.
She beholds her Lord Not, dies in agony and is defrauded by great pride.
Attached to riches, she is estranged with her Lord and flutters like a fish out of water.
She commits sins, and is therefore stricken with the fear of entering into existences and death shall punish her.
Prays Nanak, preserve me in Thine asylum, O Lord, the Fulfiller of desires.
Slok.
I am attached in faithful love to my Beloved. Without Him, I can abide not even for an instant.
Nanak, the Lord is permeating my soul and body all-too-spontaneously.
He, who has been my Friend birth after birth; That intimate has taken me by my hand.
O Nanak, with hearty Love, the Lord has made me the hand-maiden of His feet.
Chhant.
The pleasant rainy season of Sawan and Bhadon, bestows bliss.
The low clouds rain and sea and land are filled with the water-honey.
The Lord is fully filling all the places and with the nine treasures of God's Name all the heart-homes are fully-filled.
Contemplating the Lord, the Searcher of hearts, all the generations are wholly saved.
Those who are awake in the love of their Beloved; To them no sin attaches, Ever Forgiving is my Merciful Master.
Prays Nanak, I have obtained God, who is ever pleasing to my mind.
Slok
Thirsty with desire, I wander, thinking when I shall behold my Lord.
O Nanak, is there any friendly holyman, who may unite me with my Master?
Without meeting Him, I am comforted not. I can abide not even for a moment and trice.
Entering the sanctuary of God's saints, Nanak's desires are fulfilled.
Chhant.
In the months of Assu and Katik, preceding the cold season, I thirst for God and make preparation to meet Him.
Searching for His vision, I wander, thinking, when I shall meet my Lord, the Treasure of virtues.
Without my Beloved Spouse, I obtain not all peace and accursed become my necklaces and bracelets.
However beauteous, wise, accomplished and all-knowing I may be, my body is, as if, it is without breath.
I Look here, there and in ten directions for Him and my soul thirsts to meet my Lord.
Supplicates Nanak, O my Master, the Treasure of virtues show mercy and unite me with Thyself.
Slok.
My inner fire is quenched, am pacified and within my soul and body, peace has welled up.
Nanak, I have met with my All-pervading Lord and my duality and doubt are dispelled.
God himself sends the saints to the world saying. "I am not far from ye".
Nanak, uttering the Name of the All-pervading Lord, my doubt and dread are dispelled.
Chhant.
In the moon-cool season of the months of Maghar and Poh, God has become manifest unto me.
Seeing the Lord's vision my heart-burning is stopped and the fraud of mammon is ended
Meeting with my God, face to face, all my desires are fulfilled and I serve His feet like a bond-slave.
My Necklace, hair-string decorations and all the dainties consist in singing the praise of the Invisible and Inscrutable Lord.
Death's courier can spy not those, who long for the love and service of the world-Lord.
Supplicates Nanak, she, whom the Lord has united with Himself; she suffers not separation of love from her Beloved.
Slok
The chaste bride has obtained the wealth of God's and her mind now wavers not.
O Nanak, meeting with the saints, the Lord, my Friend, has become manifest in my very home.
With her loved spouse the bride enjoys millions of melodies, merriments and joys.
Uttering the Lord's Name, O Nanak, the mortal obtains the fruits of his heart's desire
Chhant.
The autumnal or snow-bound season of the months of Maghand Phagan is pleasing to my mind and is very meritorious.
O my mates and companions, sing ye the songs of rejoicing, God, my Groom, has entered into my home.
My Beloved has come home, in my mind meditate I on Him and my hearty beauteous couch is bedecked,
The woods, the grass-blades and the three worlds have become green and on seeing my Love's vision, I am bewitched.
Meeting with my Master, my desire is fulfilled and my mind repeats the Immaculate Name-spell.
Prays Nanak I have met God, my Groom who is the Lord of excellence and I now ever make merry.
Slok.
The saints are the succourers of the soul and are the ferry-men to cross the terrible world-ocean.
O Nanak, know them to be the highest of all, as they cherish love for the Lord's Name.
They, who know the Lord, swim across. They are the heroes and they alone, the warriors.
Nanak is a sacrifice, unto those, who by uttering God's Name land on the shore.
Chhant.
The Lord's feet abide over the head of all, Enshrining them in the mind all the woes are erased.
They dispel the agony of coming and going and the Lord's meditation enters into the man's mind.
Inebriated with Divine knowledge, one is imbued with God's love, and within his mind forgets not the Lord, even for an instant.
Shedding my self-conceit, I have fallen under the protection of God's feet, All the virtues abide in the Lord of the Universe.
I make obeisance unto the Primal Lord, the Lord of the World, the Treasure of virtues and the lover of eminence.
Prays Nanak, show Thou mercy unto me, O Lord, Thou art of the same form in every age.
Ramkali 1st Guru Dakhni Onkar.
There is but One True God. By Guru's grace, he is obtained.
Brahma was created through the One Lord.
That Brahma cherished the one Lord in the mind.
It is from the One Lord, that mountains and ages have emanated.
It is the Lord who created the Vedas.
It is through the One Lord, that the world is saved.
It is through the Lord, that the God-conscious beings are emancipated.
Hear thou the account of the imperishable Lord, worthy of obeisance.
The eternal Lord is the essence of the three world.
Hear, O pandit, why write thou the worldly puzzles?
By Guru's grace, write thou only the Name of the Lord, the cherisher of the world. Pause.
S: God created the whole world with ease, In the three worlds is the one luminous Lord.
Pick up thou the gems and pearls of the Name and by the Guru's grace thou shalt obtain God, the Real commodity.
If man, understands, reflects and comprehends what he reads and peruses, he ultimately comes to realise that the True Lord is within all.
The pious persons perceives and contemplates the True Lord With thy True Lord, the world is but false.
Dh: The meritorious men, with steadfast mind, cherish Lord's devotion in this world, the city of faith.
Dh: if the dust of such saints' feet alights on man's face and forehead, from iron dross he is transmuted into Gold.
Blessed is He, the supporter of the earth, who Himself is unborn and whose decision and speech are true and perfect.
The Creator's extent, only the Creator knows, or knows the valiant Guru,
Loving another, man loses Divine Knowledge, he putrefies in pride and eats poison.
The ambrosial hymn of the Guru, he deems vain and likes not to hear it, Thus loses he, the Profound and Unfathomable Lord.
If the mortal believes, that the Guru tells truth, he obtains Nectar and to his soul and body, the True Lord becomes pleasing.
The Lord Himself is the Exalted Guru. Himself he blesses man with the Nectar-Name and Himself makes him quaff this Nectar.
Every one says that Lord is, but One, but each one is engrossed in ego and pride.
Let man know the one Lord within and without; Like this shall he realise the Lord's presence in his very home.
The Lord is near. Consider not God to be far, he alone is permeating the whole world.
There is but one Lord. There is not another. Nanak, remains merged in the One Lord.
This mind-actor, how can thou keep under control? It is unseizable and is immeasurable.
Giving the intoxicating herb of falsehood, mammon has made the mortal mad.
Becoming indigent through greed and avarice, mortal is ruined and ever grieves afterwards.
If man serves the one Lord, then he realises he the worth of emancipation and his comings and goings cease,
The Unique Lord is in all deeds, colours and forms.
He works through winds, water, fire and various shapes.
The one soul wanders through the three worlds.
If the mortal understands and perceives One God; he is blessed with honour, then.
He, who gathers divine wisdom and meditation; abides in a state of evenness
Some rare One attains to the one Lord by Guru's grace.
He, whom the Lord gives through. His grace, He alone obtains peace.
He, then utter and preaches the True Name, through the Guru.
The Lord's light, illumines the ocean and the earth.
The great cherisher of the worlds is contained in the three worlds.
When such Divine comprehension wells up, then God shows his vision,
and mercifully enters into the mortal's own house.
Descending low, the ambrosial rain is incessantly falling.
The sublime Gurbani, embellishes the mortal.
He, who knows the secret of this one God,
is himself the Creator and Himself the Luminous Lord.
When the sun of Divine comprehension rises, the mortal slays the demons,
looks upwards and deliberates on the Name.
In the high and low, beginning and the end and the three worlds he then sees the one Lord.
That Lord Himself does, utters and hears all.
He, the Destiny-scribe, blesses us with soul and body.
That sublime Creator, I keep within my mind and mouth.
The Lord is the Life of the world. Without Him there is not another.
Nanak, imbued with God's Name, the mortal obtains honour.
He, who lovingly utters the Name of God, the King,
engaging in combat, overpowers his mind,,
and night and day remains imbued with his Lord's Love;
He is renowned in the three worlds and the four ages.
He, who knows the Lord, becomes like Him.
He is rendered very pure and his body is sanctified.
In the love of One Lord, he remains happy, within his mind.
In his mind, he enshrines love for the True Name.
Be thou not cross with thy Lord and quaff His elixir, Thou art not to stay long in this world.
The kings, the emperors and the paupers, shall remain not, They continue coming and going, the four ages through.
Everyone says he will remain here and still no one remains, Then before whom should I make a supplication when no one is permanent?
The One Name of the Lords Master is eternally efficacious. The Guru alone blesses the mortal with honour and sound under standing.
My shyness and hesitation has died and perished away and I now walk unveiling my face.
My crazy mother-in-law (mammon) is gone mad and her fear is removed off my head now.
With caressing affection, my Beloved has summoned me and in my mind is the joy of His Name.
Imbued with the Love of my Beloved, I have become His hand-maiden and by Guru's grace am rendered care-free.
Reap thou the excellent profit of the meditation of the Name-jewel.
Evil are avarice, covetousness and egotism.
Practising slander, commendation and back-biting,
the apostate is gone blind, foolish and ignorant.
The mortal comes into the world for earning some profit.
He becomes a cooly and cheated by the mammon-cheat.
He, who with the capital of faith, reaps the profit of the Name,
O Nanak, gathers true honour and is the true King.
Adopting the way of death, the world is ruined.
No one is potent to undo the influence of mammon.
If wealth visits the house of even a groveling clown,
beholding that wealth, both the rich and the poor, play homage to him.
If there be riches, then even and idiot is looked upon as wise.
Without the Lord's devotional service, the world is stark mad.
He, the one Lord, is contained amongst all.
He manifests Himself unto him, on whom is His grace.
The Uninimical Lord is ever stable all the ages through.
He is involved not in strifes, nor come sand goes He.
Whatever is seen that is the Lord Himself.
Creating Himself, the Lord Himself installs the soul, in the body.
He Himself, is beyond comprehension and the men are involved in worldly affairs.
He, the life of the world Himself shows the way to union with Himself.
Practising pious deeds, mortal obtains true peace.
Bereft of the Lord's Name, how can man be emancipated?
Without the Name, even the body is an enemy.
To still thy soul's pain, why meetest thou not with thy Lord?
The way-farer comes and goes along the high way.
What did he bring and what shall he take along with himself?
Without the Name, one suffers loss everywhere.
When the Lord makes man realise Him, then earns he the profit.
In trade and traffic, the dealer deals in.
Without the Name, how can he have real honour?
He alone is a divine who deliberates over God's virtues.
Through pondering over the Divine knowledge.
Rare is the persons, who is the giver of virtues in the world.
The true way of life is obtained by Guru's instruction.
The worth of the Inaccessible and Inapprehensible Lord can be assessed not.
Then alone one meets with Him, if He makes on meet Himself.
The virtuous bride ever reflects on her Lord's virtues.
O Nanak, the mortal meets with his Lord, the Friend by Guru's instruction.
The lust and wrath wastes body away,
as borax melts the Gold.
The gold is rubbed over the touch-stone and that gold endures the fire.
When it assumes the beauteous colour, it becomes acceptable to the assayer's eye.
The world is an animal and the arrogant death is the butcher.
The Creator's created being obtains the recompense of his deeds.
He, who made the world, knows its worth.
What, else can one say? One can say nothing.
Searching and searching, I have quaffed the Name-Nectar.
I have adopted the way of tolerance and have surrendered my soul unto the True Guru.
True, true every one calls himself.
But he alone is true who contemplates the Name-Jewel through all the four ages.
Eating and drinking, the mortal dies, but he knows not his Lord.
He becomes dead in life in an instant, when he realises the Lord.
Stable comes his mind and his soul likes this death. By Guru's grace, man relishes the Name.
By Guru's grace, man realises the Name.
When the Infinite Lord abides in the man's mind-firmament,
he sings the Lord's praise and dwells in celestial peace.
Going there, he comes not back, nor suffers he transmigration.
By Guru's grace, he remains merged in the Lord's love.
My Master is Unapproachable, Self-dependent and Unborn.
To fix the mind in Him is the meritorious trance,
Remembering the Lord's Name, one goes not round in existences again.
Excellent is the Guru's way All other ways are bereft of the Name.
I have grown weary of wandering at many houses and doors.
Innumerable are my births. There is no limit to them.
Good many became my mothers, fathers, sons and daughters
Again, many have been my teachers and disciples.
Through the false Guru, one is emancipated not.
Know thou that the Groom is One and the brides are many.
The pious lives and dies in her Lord's will.
Searching in ten direction, I have found my spouse in my very home.
I have met my Groom and the True Guru has made me meet Him,
The pious persons sings God's praise. The God-conscious being utters His Name.
The Guru-ward evaluates the value of the Lord and makes others evaluate Him.
The God-conscious being comes and goes without fear.
He washes off his filth and burns his disrepute.
The holy man's word is the deliberation of the Veda.
The holy man's ablution at holies consists in doing good deeds.
The Exalted Guru's word is the sublime Nectar.
Nanak, the God-conscious beings swims across the world-ocean.
The mercurial mind remains not steady.
The mind-deer secretly eats the green shoots of sin.
He, who enshrines the Lord's lotus feet in his mind and heart,
and ever, ever remembers the Lord, lives eternally.
Every one seems to be care-ridden.
He alone obtains peace, who contemplates the One Lord.
He, in whose mind the Lord abides and who is absorbed in God's Name,
is emancipated and goes to his home with honour.
The body is destroyed with the loosening of a knot.
See thou by going around, that the world is subject to universal destruction.
One, who deems sunshine add shade alike,
shatters his shackles and is emancipated (or brings the salvation to his home).
The trifling mammon has strayed the world.
Such a writ is pre-ordained in accordance with the mortal's past deeds.
His youth shall waste away and over his head hover old age and death.
The body is consumed and becomes like the water-moss.
The Lord Himself is knower in the three worlds.
He alone is the Beneficent Lord all the ages through, There is no any other.
As it pleases Thee, so keepest Thou us all.
I beg for the Lord's praise, which blesses me with honour and credit.
Remaining wide-awake, I become pleasing to Thee, O my Lord;
When Thou unitest me, I merge in Thee, then.
O Lord of the world, utter I ever Thine praise.
By Guru's instruction, the mortal meets with the One Lord for sure.
Why talkest thou nonsense and quarrelest with the world?
Seeing thy madness, thou shalt die of repentance in the end.
The mortal is born and ultimately dies, but longs not for eternal life.
He comes and losing all hope, departs hopeless in the end.
Grieving, repenting and doing vain deeds, he, at last mixes with dust.
Singing God's praise, death masticates not the man.
Man obtains the nine treasures through the Lord's Name,
and the Lord Himself blesses him with these all, spontaneously.
Man utters divine knowledge and Himself realises it, as well
Himself he knows it and Himself sees it,
The Guru's instruction, enshrines in his mind,
Being immaculate and true, he is pleasing to the True Lord.
In the Guru's ocean, there is no dearth of pearls.
Inexhaustible herein is the wealth of genuine jewels.
Do thou the deed, ordained by the Guru.
Why focus thou after the Guru's plays, which are Inapprehensible?
O Nanak, by Guru is instructions, merge thou in the True Lord.
By speaking in defiance, affection is torn asunder.
By pulling it from both sides, the arm breaks.
The love breaks, if the speech is sour.
The Beloved forswears and forsakes the evil-minded bride.
The loosened knot is tied again through wisdom.
By Guru's instruction, one's affairs are adjusted in one's own home.
He, who earns the profit of the True Name, no more suffers any loss,
and the Lord of three worlds become a great Friend of his.
Restrain thou thy mind and keep it in its place.
The world is destroyed in strifes and regrets on the sins committed.
The spouse is but One and all others are His brides.
The false bride assumes many religious garbs.
When the Lord stops her going into another's home,
then is she is summoned into her Lord's mansion without any hindrance.
She is adorned with the Name and is dear to her True Lord.
She alone is the true bride and the Lord lends her His support.
O my mate, by rambling and roaming, many beauteous robes are torn off.
In jealousy, the body is not in peace, Without the Lord's fear flocks over flocks are destroyed.
She, through God's fear remains dead in her body home. The wise spouse looks on her with favour.
She, through God's fear remains dead in her body home.
Abiding in the world-mountain greatly thirst I for my Lord, Now when I behold Him, I discover that he is not afar.
Contemplating the Name, my thirst is quenched and I now quaff the Name.-Nectar to my fill.
Everyone says "Giver, O Lord, give". But He gives the Name to him, with whom He is pleased,
It is through the Guru, that the Lord gives the Name-Nectar and that quenches the thirst.
I was seeking and searching my Lord, when I fell and dropped down on the very bank of the life's river.
The persons with heavy sins fall flat, but the light ones (without the load of sins) swim across.
They who meet the Eternal and Immeasurable. Lord; unto them I am sacrifice.
With the dust their feet, the mortal is exonerated, he unites in the Lord's union.
I have surrendered my soul unto my Guru and am blessed with the immaculate Name.
I serve him, who has blessed me with the Name and I am a sacrifice onto him.
He, who build all, demolishes as well, Without Him, there is not another.
If I remember Him by the Guru's grace, then my body shall suffer no pain.
No one is mine, whose skirt should I hold? None was and none shall ever be mine.
Man is ruined in coming and going and is inflicted with the disease of duality.
The men, bereft of the Name, fall like the saline wall.
Without the Name, how can one by realised? The wise one falls into hell in the end.
One describes the Infinite True Lord, with the limited number of words.
The ignorant one is without understanding. Without understanding, Without the Guru's Divine comprehension can be gathered not.
The separated soul is life the broken chord of a rebeck which sounds not in separation.
Awakening their destiny, the Lord unites the separated souls with Himself, O Nanak.
The body is the tree and soul the sublime bird,
which peck the quintessence, unite with the One Lord and they are not trapped in the least.
Seeing the plenty of sins, feed, the birds, that hurriedly and swiftly, fly away;
Their feathers are clipped, they are caught in the noose and they are involved in calamity through their misdeeds.
Without the True Lord, how can one be released? The jewel of God's praise is attained to, through His grace alone.
If He Himself liberates, then alone one is liberated, He Himself is our great Master.
When the Lord Himself shows mercy, one is emancipated by Guru's grace.
The glories are in the Lord's own hand. He blesses with them the mortal, with whom He is pleased
Without its moorings, the soul violently trembles and reels.
Only the True Lord's refuge is glory-giving BY seeking it, no work of the mortal is spoiled.
Ever-stable is God, ever-stable is the Guru and ever-stable is the True Lord's meditation.
O Lord of gods, men and Yogis Thou alone art the support of the supportless.
Thou, O Lord, art pervading all places and inter-spaces, Thou alone art the Giver and Donor.
Wherever I see, there I see Thee alone, O Lord Thou has no limit and end.
Thou art contained in places and inter-spaces, By Guru's instruction Thou art reflected upon.
The great, Unfathomable and Infinite Lord gives gifts without asking.
My Merciful Master, Thou art the embodiment of compassion and charity. Creating the creation, Thou beholdest it.
O Lord, extending Thy mercy, Thou unitest men with Thee. Thou buildest and destroyest, in an instant.
Thou art all-wise and Thou art all-seeing Of all the givers Thou art the most supreme Giver.
God is the Eradicator of poverty and the Destroyer of pain. The Exalted Guru, blesses man with Divine knowledge and meditation.
Losing wealth, the mortal greatly grieves. The mind of the fool is engrossed. in riches.
A few amass the wealth of truth and love the Immaculate Name.
If by losing wealth, thou can be absorbed in the love of the One Lord, let it go then.
Deliver thou thy soul and also surrender thy head to thy Lord and seek thou only thy Creator's support.
The worldly affairs and wanderings come to an end, when the Name's bliss enters into the man's mind.
Meeting with the Guru-God. even the enemies become friends.
The things thou wanderest for, searching forest to forest, abides within thy very home.
United by the True Guru, thou shalt remain blended with the Lord and thy pain of birth and death shall end.
Performing various rituals, one is released not. Without virtue, he goes to the city of death.
Committing sins, one grieves in the end and loses this world as also the yonder one,
He possesses neither gnosis nor concentration, neither faith nor meditation.
Without the Name, how can he be fearless and how can he know the evil of ego?
I am tired. How can I get at my Lord, who is Unfathomable and Endless?
I have not the loved friends, to whom I may cry for help.
Nanak, if I utter the Name of my Beloved Groom, God, the Uniter, shall unite me with Himself.
He, who separated me, will unite me with Himself, if I love the Guru infinitely.
Sin is evil, but it is sweet unto the sinner.
He loads sins and through sin he makes ostentation.
He who sheds evil and understands his-self,
to him no sorrow, separation and suffering overtake.
How can one escape falling into the hell? How can he save himself from death's courier?
How can one be rid of coming and going? Pernicious is falsehood and annihilating the death.
Man is enveloped with entanglements and in entanglements he ever falls.
Without the Name, how can he be saved? In sin, he rots and putrefies.
Again and again, the crow falls into the net.
Then he grieves, but what can he do then?
Even when entrapped, he pecks at the food and understands not.
If he meets the True Guru. then alone he sees with his eyes.
Like a fish, the mortal is caught in the death's noose.
Without the Beneficent Guru, search not thou salvation anywhere else.
Again and over again he comes and again and over again he goes.
If he is absorbed in the One Lord's love, he keeps his attention fixed in Him.
Thus is he emancipated and falls not in the trap again.
She calls out, "OI brother, stay, O brother". But the brother becomes a stranger.
The brother leaves for his home and the sister burns herself stung by the pain of separation.
While in this world or in her father's home, the daughter, deeming herself the young bride of her young Groom, should embrace love for Him.
O bride, if thou longer for thy True Guru with love.
Rare is the gnostic, who understands this by meeting with the True Satguru.
The glories are in the hand of the Lord. Him alone He blesses with them whom He likes.
Some rare one, if he becomes resigned to Guru's will, reflects over the Guru's word.
This Gurbani is of the supreme person and through it, man abides in his own home.
Breaking and crushing, the Lord fashions and while fashioning and making He again shatters. The demolished ones He builds and the built ones He demolishes.
The Omnipotent, carefree Lord dries the filled-up tanks and again fully fills them.
Strayed by doubt, men have become crazy, What can they obtain without destiny?
The Guru-ward knows, that the Lord holds the string, Whither the Lord draws, thither the mortals go.
They, who sing God's praise and ever remain imbued with His love repent not in the end.
Bh: If they search and realise the Lord through the Guru, then thy attain an abode in their own home.
Bh: Arduous is the way of the dreadful world-ocean. Remaining desireless amidst worldly desires, the world-ocean is crossed.
By Guru's grace, the mortal understands his ownself and thus remains he dead in life.
Many have died crying for wealth and property, but wealth goes along with none.
The soul-swan arises and departs crest-fallen and the wealth is forsaken over here.
The false soul is harassed by the Death's courier and one's demerits go along with him.
If one be with virtues, his mind, turning its back upon the world, merges in the mind itself.
Puffed up with pride, many have perished. Without the Name, one comes to grief.
Where are the fortresses, mansions, palaces and courts? They are like the short-lived play.
Nanak, without the True Name, the false man continues coming and going.
The Lord Himself is wise and beauteous and Himself accomplished and Omniscient.
They who come, shall ultimately go. Coming and going, they shall continue repenting.
They shall pass through eighty-four lakhs of existences. This number decreases not, nor soars it high.
Only those persons are saved who love their Lord.
Their strife is ended and their desire for worldly valuable is dispelled.
Whosoever is seen, he shall go. Whom should I befriend then?
I surrender my mind unto the Lord and my body and soul, I lay before Him.
Ever-stable art Thou, O my Creator-Lord. I lean on Thee alone.
Smitten with virtue, ego is stilled, and imbued with the Name, the soul develops hate for the world.
None of the kings and nobles, nor any of the poor, the rich and beggars is to stay here.
When comes one's turn, then no one remains stable here.
Pernicious and dreadful is the path, passing through impassable seas and mountains.
Owing to the sins in my body, I am dying of grief, Without virtues, how shall I enter into my home?
Taking virtues with them, the virtuous meet the Lord, How can I lovingly meet those virtuous ones?
Contemplating and remembering God, within my mind, the Enemy of ego, may I ever remain like them.
The mortal is brimful with sins, but virtues abide with him, as well.
Without the True Guru and so long as he reflects not on Name, he sees not the virtues.
The Lord's soldiers take care of their homes. Their pay is fixed before their pay is fixed before their very advent into this world.
They perform the service of their Supreme Lord and obtain the profit.
From their mind they forsake and forget covetousness, avarice and evil.
In their body fortress they proclaim the victory of their Monarch and return not vanquished ever.
He, who calls himself the Lord's servant and replies to Him in defiance.
He loses his wages and he is seated not on the throne.
The glories are in the hand of my Beloved. He gives them to him, whom He is pleased with,
Of Himself, the Lord does every thing, Whom else should we address? No one else does aught.
I can think not of any other, who seated on the spread rug, issues commands.
He, the Man of men, wards off the hell. True is He and true is His Name.
I wandered searching Him in forests and grassy-glades, but now I reflect on Him in my very mind.
The treasure of the myriads of pearls, jewels and emeralds is in the hand of the True Guru.
Loving the One Lord, with single mind, I become sublime and meet with Him,
Nanak, he who lovingly meets with his Beloved, earns the profit for the yonder world.
He, who has created and made the universe and who has fashioned thy form;
By Guru's grace; contemplate thou that infinite Lord, who has no end and limit.
R: Beauteous is that Sire Master.
Without Him, there is no other King.
Hear thou the Guru's charm, that thy God may come and abide within thy mind.
By Guru's grace, the Lord is attained. Let no one stray in doubt.
He alone is the True banker, who possesses the capital of God's wealth.
By Guru's grace, he becomes perfect. All-praiseworthy is He.
Beauteous is the Guru's word. By reflecting on the Guru's word, the Lord is obtained.
When self-conceit is stilled, her pain is eradicated and the bride attains to God. her spouse.
Man amasses gold and silver, but this false and poisonous wealth is like ashes.
Amassing wealth, man calls himself a banker, but duality wastes him away.
The true ones amass truth, because invaluable is the True Name.
They remember the Immaculate the Pure Lord, True is their honour and true their speech.
O my Omniscient Lord, Thou art my Friend and Intimate, Thou art my lake and Thou the swan,
He, within whose mind, the True Lord abides; unto him I am a sacrifice.
Understand thou Him, who has created love for the bewitching mammon.
He, who realises the wise Lord, deems poison and nectar alike.
Without forbearance, myriads, lakhs and innumerable number of person, have perished
Their count can be known not. How can I reckon them? Being distressed and bothered numberless have died.
He, who knows his Lord is set free and he is not loaded with chains.
Becoming immaculate through the Name, thou shalt enter into the Lord's mansion and shalt be spontaneously blessed with forgiveness and truth.
If thou possess the viaticum of the true riches of meditation, the Lord, of Himself, shall abide within thy body.
With thy soul, body and mouth utter thou ever the Lord's Name and virtue and composure, shall then enter into thy mind.
In self-conceit, the mortal is distracted and ruined. Without God, everything else is evil.
Creating the creatures, the Lord has placed Himself within them. The Creator-Lord is Detached and lllimitable.
None knows the mystery of the World-Lord.
Whatever the World-Lord does, that assuredly comes to pass.
For the riches, the mortals contemplate the Lord.
Wealth is obtained according to the past writ.
For the sake of wealth, the mortals become servants and thieves.
Wealth goes not with the mortal and comes to belong to another.
Without the True Name, one obtains not honour in the Lord's court.
He, who drinks God's elixir, is emancipated in the end.
Perceiving and discerning, O my mate, I am wonder-struck.
My self-conceit, which proclaimed I-am-ness and mine-ness, is now stilled and illumined by gnosis, my mind now utters the Name.
I am grown weary of wearing many necklaces, hair-strings and bracelets and making ornamentation.
Meeting my Beloved, I attain peace and wear the garland of all the virtues.
Nanak, by Guru's grace, the love and affection of the Lord is attained to.
Without God, who has obtained peace? Reflect thou on this in thy mind and see.
Read thou of God alone, understand thou Him and embrace thou love for thy God.
Contemplate thou thy Lord God, remember thou Him and have the support of only the Lord's Name.
The writ, scribed by the Creator, O my mate, can be erased not.
The Creator, who Himself has created the universe, mercifully places His foot(realization)in man's mind.
The glories are in the hand of the Creator. Understand thou this, reflecting on the Guru's word.
The Lord's writ can be challenged not. O Lord, as it pleases Thee, so do Thou take care of me.
By Thine gracious glance, Nanak has obtained peace, reflecting on Thy Name.
Through error, the apostates putrefy to death. Reflecting over the Guru's word, men are saved.
The Lord, whom man can see not; what can he say of Him?
A sacrifice am I unto my Guru, who has shown me my Master within my mind.
Then alone the Pandit is said to be educated, if he with calm disposition reflects on the Lord's knowledge.
He should deliberate over the Lord's science, find its quintessence and enshrine love for the Lord's Name.
The wayward person sells his knowledge, He earns poison and poison he eats.
The fool contemplates not the Name, He has no understanding and comprehension.
He is said to be saintly teacher; if he imparts true instruction to his pupils
Contemplate thou the Name, in-gather thou the Name and thus earn thou the profit in this world.
With the true mind read thou the supremely sublime Gurbani.
Nanak, he alone is learned and he the wise scholar, who wears the Necklace of the Lord's Name.
Ramkali 1st Guru Sidh Goshat.
There is but One God. By the grace of the True Guru, He is obtained.
The men of miracles forming an assembly sat on their seats and said to the Guru, "Make thou salutation to this assembly of saints" Answers the Guru:
(Says Guru Nanak) "My Salutation is before Him, who is True, infinite and extremely Exquisite.
I cut off my head and lay it before Him and surrender my body and soul unto Him".
Nanak, by meeting the saint Guru, the True Lord is obtained and one is spontaneously blessed with glory.
What is the good of wandering about? it is through the True Name, that the man is rendered pure.
Without the True Name, No one is emancipated.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 1: "Who art thou? Q. 2: What is thy Name? Q. 3: What is thy sect? Q. 4: What is thine life-object?
Our prayer is that thou tell us the truth. We are a sacrifice unto the pious persons.
Q. 5: Where is thy seat? Q. 6: Where abidest thou, O boy?
Q. 7: Whence hast thou come? Q. 8: Whither goest thou? The detached Sidhs say, hear thou, O Nanak. Q. 9: What is the way?
(Answers the Guru) The Lord is within all the hearts. A. 5: In Him is my seat. A. 6: In Him is my abode. A. 3: I walk in the True Guru's will and this alone is my sect.
A. 7: I have proceeded from God. A. 8: I shall go whither He shall direct me in His will. A. 2: My Name is Nanak. A. 1: I am ever an obeyer of God's order.
A. 9: To be seated in the Imperishable Lord's contemplate mood is my way. A. 4: The attainment of such a transcendent comprehension is my life object.
Knowing and recognising myself by Guru's grace, I have merged in the Trust of the True.
(The Yogis say) "The world-ocean is said to be impassable. Q. 10: How can one cross it?"
Charpat says: "O Nanak, the detached, give thou a true reply after due deliberation".

Truly speak I unto thee, that how can I argue with thee, when thou deemest that thou hast reached the yonder shore". (Says Guru Nanak).
A. 10: As a lotus-flower remains unaffected in water, as also a duck swims and becomes not wet,
so with fixed intent on the Guru's word and uttering the Name, O Nanak, the dreadful world-ocean is crossed.
He who lives in an aloneness, enshrining the one Lord in his mind, living without desire in the midst of desires,
and sees and shows to others the Inaccessible and Incomprehensible Lord; of him Nanak is a slave.
(Say the Yogis) O Lord, listen thou to our prayer; we ask thee thy true opinion.
Take it not ill and give a suitable reply. Q. 11: How can one arrive at the Great God's door?
Answers the Guru: A. 11: Through the Name's support, O Nanak, this mercurial mind sits in its true home,
and enshrines love for the True Lord and then the Creator, of Himself unites one in His union.

We take fruits and roots as our food, this is the gnosis, which the Yogis utter.
We bathe at holies obtain the fruit of peace and not even an iota of filth attaches to us. Says Lorharipa.
this alone is the way of uniting in the union of the Lord". Loharipa, the disciple of Gorakh says.
(Answers the Guru) At home and abroad, lie thou not asleep and let not thy mind covet another's home.
Without the Name, the mind is comforted and held not and its hunger O Nanak, departs not.
The Guru has shown me the shop and the city within my very home where I easily deal in the true business.
(Say the Yogis) We sleep little and eat little. This O Nanak, is the Quintessence of the Idea of 'Yoga'.

Out of the six school of philosophy, ours is the one sect of Yoga. From amongst its twelve sects, adopt thou the one 'Ai' sect.
In this way the mind is instructed, O man, and then the mortal suffers not strokes again".
Nanak asserts, that by Guru's grace, the Lord is realised and only in the following way the 'Real Yoga is attained to,
Make thou the incessant enshrining of the Name in the mind and the renunciation of ego and attachment, thine ear-rings.
Discard thou thy lust, wrath and self-conceit and by Guru's instruction, thou shalt be blessed with sublime understanding.
See thou the Lord fully pervading everywhere. Make thou this thy patched-coat and begging-bowl. Thus, O Nanak, the One Lord shall ferry thee across.
True is the Lord true is His Name and on assaying, true thou shalt find the Guru's word as well.
Make thou turning away from the world thy beggar's wallet and the essence of the five elements thy cap.
Let keeping the body alert be thy grass-matting and the mind's control thy loin-cloth.
Let chastity, contentment and self-discipline be thine disciples or companions
Becoming God conscious like this, O Nanak, the mortal contemplates the Name.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 12: Who is unmanifest? Q. 13: Who is emancipated?
Q. 14: Who is that who is united from within and without?
Q. 15: Who is he that comes? Q. 16: Who is he, who goes?
Q. 17: Who is he, that is pervading the three world s?
(Answers the Guru) A. 12: He who permeates all the hearts is Unmanifest. A. 13: The Guru-ward is emancipated.
A. 14 he, the Guru-ward is united with the Name, from within and without.
A. 15: The egocentric perishes, and comes and goes. A. 16: It is the egocentric, who goes.
A. 17: Nanak, the Guru-ward knows that the True Lord is pervading the three worlds. The Yogis say.
Q. 18: How is one bound and eaten up by mammon, the she-serpent?
Q. 19: How does one lose? Q. 20: How does one gain?
Q. 21: How does one become pure? Q. 22: How is one's darkness removed?
He who understands this reality; He is our Religious Preceptor.
(Answers the Guru) A. 18: The evil intellect binds one, then is he eaten up by the snake.
A19: An apostate loses. A 20: The pious person gains.
A. 22: Meeting the True Guru, man's darkness is dispelled.
A. 21: Nanak, stilling his ego, the mortal becomes pure and merges in the Lord.
If man fixes his soul in the Lord,
his mind-swan flies not, nor his body-wall falls.
He, then deems the cave of equipoise his Real Home.
Nanak, the True Lord loves the true person.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 23: What is the reason that forsaking thy home thou hast become a hermit?
Q. 24: What is the reason that thou hast adopted this dress?
Q. 25: Of what merchandise art thou the customer?
Q. 26: How shalt thou ferry across thy sect?
(Answers the Guru) A. 23: In search of the saints I have become a hermit.
A. 24: For the sake of the Lord's vision, I have adopted this costume.
A. 25: I am the trader of the true merchandise.
A. 26: Nanak, through the Guru's grace I shall ferry across my sect.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 27: By what device, O man, hast thou changed thy life's course?
Q. 28: With what hast thou attached this mind of thine?
Q. 29: By what device hast thou stilled thy hope and desire?
Q. 30: With what device hast thou found the Light within thee?
Q. 31: How can man eat iron without the teeth?
O Nanak, give thou thy true opinion.
(Answers the Guru) A27: Being born in the True Guru's home I have changed my life's course and ended is my wandering.
A. 28: This mind of mine I have tinged with and attached to the celestial strain.
A. 29: My desire and hope I have found the Light within me.
A. 30: By the Guru's grace, I have found the Light within me.
A. 31: Effacing the three modes, man can eat iron without the teeth.
Thus, O Nanak, the Emancipator Himself emancipates the mortal.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 32: Regarding the beginning what view of thine doest thou give? Q. 33: In which home the Profound Lord did abode then?
Q. 34: What are said to be the ear-rings of gnosis? Q. 35: Who is it, that abides in all the hearts?
Q36: How can death's stroke be fended off? Q37: How can one enter into the home of fearlessness?
Q. 38: How can the adversaries (ego, anger, lust etc.) be slain?
(Answers the Guru) A. 37: If man knows God, the seat of bliss and contentment and through Guru's word effaces his ego and sin, then he abides in his own home of fearlessness.
A. 36: If one realises the Name of Him, who has created the creation, Nanak, then, becomes his slave.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 39: Wherefrom has the man come? Q. 40: Whither does he go? Q. 41: Wherein remains he merged?
He who understands the meaning of this Divine discourse; Him we call the Guru, who has not even iota of avarice.
Q. 42: How can man obtain the Formless Reality? Q. 43: How can he enshrine love for God, through the Guru?
Q. 44: He who Himself is the Hearer and Himself the Creator, O Nanak, what sayest thou regarding His explanation?
(Answers the Guru) A. 39: The man originates from the Lord's command. A. 40: he goes back to where is His will.
A. 41: He remains merged in the Lord's will. A. 43: By practising truth and realizing the Lord's dignity and worth, he is blessed with the Lord's love by the Perfect Guru.
A. 32: As for the beginning, one can only think and talk in terms of wonder. A. 33: The Profound Lord, then did dwell with His ownself.
A. 34: The True Lord, the Life of all, abides within all the hearts. A. 35: The True Lord, the Life of all, abides within all hearts.
A. 42: By means of Gurbani, man easily obtains and merges in the pure Formless Reality.
A. 38: The Sikh who works for the Guru and serves not another; He finds way to slay his adversaries, O Nanak.
A. 44: Wonder is the will of Him, who Himself is the Hearer and Creator. He alone knows His command and truly understands the way of life of the beings.
He, who effaces his self-conceit, becomes detached and enshrines the True in his mind, is said to be a Yogi.
From formless the Lord assumed the Immaculate Form and from the state of being without any attributes, He became one with attributes.
By pleasing the True Guru, the mortal attains the supreme status and merges in the True Name.
The One Lord, he knows as the only True One and obliterates his ego and duality.
He alone is a Yogi, who understands the Guru's instruction and whose heart-lotus has bloomed.
If one remains dead in life, then understands he everything and within his mind realises the presence of the Lord, who is merciful to all.
Nanak, he alone obtains honour, who realises himself amongst all the being.
The true person emerges from truth and merges in truth as well. The pure one becomes one and the same with True Lord.
The false ones come and find no place of rest, Through duality they continue coming and going.
By Guru's instruction, transmigration comes to an end. The Lord Himself assays and grants pardon.
He, who is afflicted with the malady of another's love, forgets Name, the home of elixir.
He alone understands, whom the Lord Himself makes understand. By Guru's instruction he is emancipated.
Nanak, the Floater (God) floats the mortal, who stills his ego and duality.
The perverse are gone astray and are under the sway of death.
They have an eye on another's home and suffer a great loss.
An apostate is strayed by doubt and wanders in wilderness.
He who recites incantations in the cremation ground, is following the evil path and is plundered.
He reflects not on the Name and utters obscene words.
He alone who is imbued with the True name knows, what peace Is, O Nanak.
The Guru-ward enshrines the True Lord's fear.
The Guru-ward makes sweet his unrefined speech.
The Guru-ward hymns the Lord's immaculate praise.
The Guru-ward, attains the pure supreme status.
The God-conscious being remembers God through every hair of his.
Nanak, the God-conscious being merges in the True Lord.
The pious persons remains busy in reflecting on the gnosis.
Being satisfied through the Guru one crosses the world-rivulet.
He, who is satisfied by Guru's grace, becomes the discerner of the Guru's word.
Being satisfied by Guru's grace, the mortal comes to know the inner mortal why of life.
By Guru's grace one attains to the Invisible and infinite Lord.
Nanak, through the Guru's grace, one attains the door of salvation.
The Lord-conscious begins to utter the difficult to describe Divine comprehension.
Abiding with his family, the Lord conscious begins to practise righteousness.
The holyman contemplates his Lord with hearty love.
The pious person obtains the Name and good conduct.
He, who Himself knows the Name's mystery others know it.
Burning his ego, He merges in the Lord, O Nanak.
It is for the pious persons, that the True Lord has created the earth.
Therein He has set agoing the play of birth and death.
He who is imbued with the Guru's word, come to enshrine love for the Lord.
He who is imbued with truth goes home with honour.
Without the True Name, one obtains not honour.
Nanak, without the Name, how can the mortal he absorbed in the True Lord?
By Guru's grace, one attains the eight miraculous powers and all wisdom.
By Guru's grace, one obtains true understanding and crosses the terrible world-ocean.
The Guru-ward knows the way of truth and untruth.
The Guru-ward knows what is worldliness and renunciation.
The God-conscious being emancipates others and ferries across.
Nanak, the holyman ferries across through the Name.
Imbued with the Name, self conceit is stilled.
They, who are imbued with the Name, remain merged in the True Lord.
They who are imbued with the Lord's Name, reflect over the way of union with Him.
Imbued with the Name, one finds the door of salvation.
Imbued with the Name, the mortal gains the knowledge of the three worlds.
Nanak, imbued with the Name, one attain s eternal peace.
Imbued with the Name, the discourse with the men of miracles becomes fruitful.
He, who is imbued with the Lord's Name, ever practises penance.
To be imbued with the Lord's Name, is the true and sublime way of life.
They, who are imbued with the Name reflects on the Lord's virtues and gnosis.
Without the Name, all that the mortal utters, is useless.
Nanak, all victory is to them, who are imbued with the Lord's Name.
It is through the Perfect Guru, that the Lord's Name is attained to.
To remain merged in the True Lord, is the only way to Yog.
The Yogis wander in twelve sects and the solitarians in six and four.
By Guru's instruction, he who remains dead in life; He obtains the door of salvation.
Without the Name, all are attached to duality Reflect in thy mind and see.
Magnificent and supremely fortunate are they, O Nanak who keep the True Lord clasped to their heart.
Enshrining affection for Him, the holyman obtains the jewel of God.
The holyman, all-too-spontaneously, recognises the worth of God, the Jewel.
The pious person practises the true deeds.
The Guru-ward's soul is pleased with the True One.
When it so pleases Him, the Guru-ward sees the Unseeable Lord.
Nanak, the God-conscious being suffers not the strokes.
The pious person is blessed with the Name, charity and purity.
The pious person's attention remains fixed in the Lord.
The pious person obtains honour in the Lord's court.
The pious person attains the Supreme Lord, the Destroyer of dread.
The pious person practises virtuous deeds and actions.
Nanak, the pious person unites in the Lord's union.
The Guru-ward has the knowledge of the Shastras, the Simirtis and the Vedas.
The Guru-ward knows the mystery of all the hearts.
The Guru-ward effaces enmity and envy.
The Guru-ward does away with all the reckonings.
The Guru-ward is imbued with the love of the Lord's Name.
Nanak, the Guru-ward realises His Lord.
Without the Guru, one wanders in transmigration.
Without the Guru, the service bears not fruit.
Without the Guru, the mind greatly wabbles.
Without the Guru, one is sated not and eats poison.
Without the Guru, one is stung by the poisonous snake of mammon and he dies in the way.
Nanak, without the Guru, the mortal suffers an utter loss.
He, whom the Guru meets; Him he ferries across.
The Guru washes off his sins and his virtue emancipates him.
Reflecting over the Guru's word, the supreme bliss of emancipation is obtained.
The Guru-ward suffers not defeat, ever.
In this body-shop, this mind is a merchant,
who through poise deals in truth.
The holy man is the bridge, built by God, the Destiny-scribe.
Through him the body-ceylon is robbed off its wickedness and the demons are annihilated.
The Ram Chand of the mind slays the Rawan of pride,
and through the Guru is realised the secret, which Babhikhan disclosed.
The holyman ferries across the ocean, even the stones.
The holyman saves thirty-three crores (millions) of men.
Of the pious person, end the comings and goings,
The pious person obtains honour in the Lord's court.
The pious person distinguishes the counterfeit from the genuine.
The pious person fixes his attention in the Creator-Lord.
Praising the Lord, the pious person merges in His court.
Nanak, the pious person is not loaded with chains.
The Guru-ward is blessed with the Name of the Immaculate Lord.
The Guru-ward burns his ego through the Name.
The Guru-ward sings the True Lord's praise.
The Guru-ward, remains absorbed in the True One.
Through the True Name, the Guru-ward is blessed with sublime honour.
O Nanak, the Guru-ward has the knowledge of all the worlds.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 45: What is the origin of life?
Q. 46: Which faith has sway at the present time?
Q. 47: Who is thy Guru, of whom thou art the disciple?
Q. 48: What is the discourse, uttering which thou remains detached?
Hearken thou to what we say, O boy Nanak.
Q. 49: Give thou the exposition of this discourse; How does the Lord ferry the man across the terrible ocean?
(Answers the Guru) A. 45: The breath is the origin of life. A. 46: It is the time of the sway of the faith of the True Guru.
A. 47: The Lord is my Guru, whose meditation, I, His disciple, greatly love.
A. 48: Uttering the discourse of the Ineffable Lord I remain detached.
Nanak, all the ages through, God, the cherisher of the world, is my Guru.
A. 49: Such is the unique Lord, by meditating on whose Divine discourse, the man crosses the terrible ocean.
Thus does the Guru-ward quench his fire of self-conceit.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 50: How can iron be chewed with the waxen teeth?
Q. 51: What is that feed, with which ego is stilled?
Q. 52: How can one abide in the house and mansion of snow? Q. 53: How can the mortal doff the dress of fire?
Q54: Which is that cave, where the mind remains stable?
Q. 55: Whom should one deem pervading here and there?
Q. 56: Which is that realisation, that makes the mind merge in the mind itself?
(Answers the Guru) A. 54: Stilling his I-am-ness and mine-ness,
and effacing duality, man becomes one with God and stable remains his mind in such a cave.
A. 50: The world is hard for the way-ward fool.
Practising the Name, iron is chewed with the waxen teeth.
A. 55: One should deem the One Lord pervading (here and there)or (Within and without).
A. 56: Nanak, through the realisation of the True Guru's will, fire is quenched and the mind merges in its if.
A. 51: By being imbued in the fear of the True Lord, ego is stilled,
then one realises One God and reflects on His Name.
A. 52: Enshrining the True Name in his mind and with the Lord's love,
and cooling and dancing his body and soul, man bides in the home and mansion of snow.
A. 53: One quenches the fire of the sins of lust and wrath and thus puts off the dress of fire,
O Nanak, through the mercy of the Merciful Beloved.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 57: In what way the mind-moon, home of coldness and darkness, is illumined?
Q. 58: In What way the brilliant sun blazes?
Q. 59: In what way the ever spying of death ceases?
Q60: What is the intellect by which the holyman's honour is saved?
Q. 61: Who is the warrior, that slays death?
Tell thou, O Nanak, thy thoughtful reply to these.
(Answers the Guru) A. 57: Uttering Good's Name, the mind moon is infinitely illumined.
A. 58: When the sun abides in the moon's is infinitely illumined.
A. 59: Leaning on the Name, death's spying ceases and one deems weal and woe alike.
A. 60: By His grace, the Lord Himself redeems the pious person and saves his honour.
A. 61: Knowing the Guru's instruction, man merges in truth,
and then prays Nanak, death eats him not.
The quintessence of the Name is known to be the most exalted of all.
Without the Name, pain and death afflict the mortal.
When man's essence merges in the Lord's essence, then is his mind sated.
When duality is dispelled, the soul enters into the One-Lord's Home.
When the spiritual breath flows and the sky of the tenth gate resounds,
one easily meets with the Moveless Lord, O Nanak.
Within us is God, without us is God and the God alone is filling the Three worlds.
The man, who realises the Lord in the fourth state; Him vice and virtue effect not.
He who knows the mystery of God, who is pervading all the hearts,
is himself the manifestation of the Primal, Immaculate and Bright Lord.
The mortal, who is imbued with the Immaculate Name;
He him self, O Nanak, is the Lord creator.
(Ask the Yogis) Every one talks of God, the Dispassionate God.
Q. 62: Whence is the immortal Lord obtained?
Q. 63: Of what kind are they who are imbued with the imperishable Lord? The Guru says.
A. 63: Thy are like Him, from whom they have emanated,
they transmigrate not, nor do they come and go.
A. 62: It is through the Guru, O Nanak, that the Imperishable Lord is obtained by instructing the mind.
By perfectly controlling the nine doors, one is accomplished by arriving at the tenth gate.
There in the tenth gate resounds the music of the Imperishable Lord.
He then sees the True Lord near and merges in Him.
The True one is fully filling all hearts.
The one, unto whom the Unmanifest Gurbani becomes manifest,
comes to know the True Lord, O Nanak.
Meeting with the Lord all-too-spontaneously, peace is procured.
The God-conscious being remains wakeful and slumbers not in sleep.
The lllimitable Lord-Master, he enshrines within his mind.
Uttering the Name he is emancipated and by his instruction, he saves others.
They, who act on the Guru's instruction, are imbued with the True Name.
Nanak, they who eradicate their self-conceit, meet the Lord and remain not separate.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 64: Which is that place, where evil intellect is (destroyed or chewed)?
Q. 65: Without understanding the quintessence, why does the mortal bear blows?
(Answers the Guru) No one can rescue the mortal who is bound at death's door.
Without the Name, one has no honour and credit.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 66: How can one obtain understanding and swim across?
(Guru answers) The ignorant egocentric obtains not understanding, O Nanak.
A. 64: The evil intellect is destroyed at the Guru's place by reflecting on the Name.
A. 66: Meeting with the True Guru, one obtains understanding swims across and attains the door of salvation.
A. 65: Becoming mind-ward one understands not quintessence, and is burnt to ashes,
through evil-intellect is separated from God and bears the blows.
Submitting to the Lord's will, the mortal is blessed with all virtues and gnosis,
and he obtains honour in the Lord's court.
He, who possesses the Merchandise and wealth of he True Name,
saves Himself and saves others, as well.
He, who knows and is imbued with the Lord, obtains honour.
No one can evaluate his worth.
Wherever I see, there I see Him pervading.
Nanak, through the Lord's true love one crosses the world-ocean.
(Asks the Yogi) Q. 67: Where is said to be the abode of that Lord? Q. 68: What is that instruction, by which the terrible world ocean is ferried across?
Q69: The exhaled breath is said to go away there and seven fingers from nostrils. Say thou, what is the support of that breath?
Q. 70: How can the mind, which speaks and sports, become silent? Q. 71: How can the Unseeable Lord, be seen?
(Answers the Guru) Hear thou, O Sire, Nanak makes a true supplication. Instruct thou thy mind, thus.
The Guru-ward is attuned to the True Guru-ward is attuned to the True Lord and by His grace He unites him in His grace, He unites him in His Union.
The Lord Himself is all-wise and Himself all-seeing, Through perfect destiny merges he in the Lord.
A. 67: That Invisible Lord abides within all the beings, Wherever I see, there I see Him.
As is the air all-pervading, similarly all-abiding is the Lord, The Lord is unqualified and He is qualified. as well.
If the Lords extends His mercy, the Name abides in the mind and the doubt is dispelled from within.
Enshrining the Name in the mind, pure become the mortal's body and soul, and pure becomes his speech.
A. 68: By the Guru's instruction the terrible world ocean is ferried across and one knows the One Lord here and hereafter.
A. 71: The Lord who has no form and colour and who is free from darkness and worldliness is recognised and seen through the Name, O Nanak.
A. 69: O Yogi, the True is the sustenance of the exhaled breath, which goes off ten fingers from the nostrils.
The Guru-ward utters and churns the quintessence and realises the Imperceptible and infinite Lord
A. 70: When man effaces the three modes and enshrines the Name within, then his ego is stilled, then the mind becomes steady.
If within and without, he knows the one, then alone comes he to profess love for the Lord's Name.
When the imperceptible Lord reveals His ownself to man, then is he blessed with the knowledge, which the Yogis think, they obtain through breath-control in the central, left and right bronchi.
Nanak the True Lord is above the three devices of breath-control. By the True Guru's instruction one merges in Him.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 72: Air is said to be the life of the mind. On what dainty does the air feed?
Q. 73: What is the way of life of the gnostic Yogi? Q. 74: What is the employment of an adept?
(Answers the Guru) A. 72: Without God, the air attains not its food from anywhere else and its thirst of ego departs not, O Yogi.
A. 73: The way of life of the gnostic Yogi is this, that he is imbued with the Lord and obtains the immortalising ambrosia. A. 74: The vocation of an adept is this, that he remains satiated with the True Name.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 75: What is the understanding by which one remains steady? Q. 76: With what food the mortal remains satiated?
(Answers the Guru) A. 75: By the understanding deeming pain and peace alike, man remains steady. A. 76: With the Name-food obtained from the True Guru, one remain satiated and death devours him not.
If man is imbued not with the Lord's love, nor is inebriated with His Nectar,
and is bereft of the Guru's word, then he remains vexed and is consumed by his inner fire.
He preserves not his seed, nor utters he the Lord's Name.
He reforms not his breath (life) nor meditates he on the True Lord.
If one remains alike in weal and woe, uttering the unutterable discourse of God,
then he attains the Omnipresent Lord, O Nanak,
By the Guru's grace, man is imbued with the Lord's love.
If the mortal quaffs the Nectar, he is absorbed in the True Lord, then.
Reflecting on the Guru, the inner-fire is quenched.
Drinking the Lord's ambrosia, the soul procures peace.
Contemplating the True Lord, by Guru's grace, one crosses the world-rivulet.
Some rare discreet person understands likewise, O Nanak.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 77: Where abides this mind elephant? Q. 78: Where does this breath reside?
Q. 79: Where should the Lord abide, O detached Nanak, so that the mind's wandering may cease?
(Answers the Guru) A. 77: When the Lord shows mercy, then He leads one to the True Guru and then this mind elephant abides in its own home.
When the mortal eats up his self-conceit, then he becomes immaculate and prohibits and restrains him wandering mind .
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 80: How can the Primal Being be known? Q. 81: How can man realise his own real-self? Q. 82: How can the sun enter into the house of the moon?
(Answers the Guru) A. 82: When by Guru's grace one stills his ego from within him, then the sun easily enters into the house of the moon, O Nanak.
A. 80: When becoming stable this mind abides in the mind itself, then, through the Guru the Primal Being is known.
A. 78: This breath is seated in its place in the home of the navel region. A. 81: Searching, by Guru's grace one can realise his own real-self.
A. 79: His Name, that is within all, should abide in his won home, so that the mind's wandering may cease. The mind then obtains. The mind then obtains the Lord, whose light is pervading the three worlds.
The appetite for the True Lord consumes calamities and one is satiated through the truth.
The unstruck music is known through the Guru and rare is the one who realises its import
Says Nanak, the dye of him, who tells the Truth and who is imbued with truth, departs not ever.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 83: When this heart and body where did the mind abide then?
Q. 84: When there was no support of the naval lotus, in which home, the breath did stay then?
Q. 85: When there was no form ore outline either, then how was love enshrined through the Name?
Q. 86: When there was no body born of egg & sperm, could not the Lord's extent and worth be evaluated then?
Q. 87: When the Lord's colour, garb and form were not seen, how could then the True Lord be know ?
(Answers the Guru) Nanak, they alone are detached, who are imbued with the Name. Now, then and ever, see they the truest of the true.
A. 83: O Yogi, when there were not heart and body, then the mind made abode in the Detached Lord.
A. 84: When there was no support of the navel-lotus, the breath then stayed in its own home imbued with the Lord's love.
A. 85: When there was no form, no sign and no caste, then in its quintessence form, the Name dwelt in the Unlineal Lord.
A. 86: When there was no body tomb, no world and no firmament, then the light of the Formless Lord alone, pervaded the three worlds.
A. 87: When the colour, garb and form of the One Lord were not seen, then all these resided in the one Wondrous Lord.
Without the True Name, no one can become immaculate. Nanak, Ineffable is the Lord's anecdote.
(Ask the Yogis) Q. 88: In what, what way the world comes into being, O man? Q. 89: By what, what ills does it perish?
(Answers the Guru) A. 88: Through self-conceit the world comes into being, O sire. A. 89: Forgetting the Name, it suffers pain and perishes.
He, who gets resigned to Guru's will reflects on the quintessence of the Divine knowledge and through the Name burns his ego.
His body and mind become immaculate and immaculate is his Speech and he remains merged in the True Lord.
Through the Nameable Lord's Name, he remains dispassionate and keeps the True Name enshrined in his mind.
Nanak, without the Name, Yoga is attained not ever, Reflect thou in thy mind and see.
Rare is the One, who by Guru's grace reflects on the True Name.
By the Guru's grace, the True Gurbani becomes manifest.
By Guru's grace, the mind is steeped with Lord's love but rare is the one who understands this.
By Guru's grace one abides in his own home (self).
It is through the Guru, that Yogi knows the way of Yoga.
The Guru-ward knows the One Lord alone, O Nanak.
Without serving the True Guru, Yoga is obtained not.
Without meeting the True Guru, no one is emancipated.
Without meeting the True Guru, the Name is attained not.
Without meeting the True Guru, one suffers immense pain.
Without meeting with the True Guru the mortal abides in the supreme darkness of ego.
Nanak, without the Guru, one loses his life and ultimately dies.
Stilling his ego, the Guru-ward conquers his mind.
The Guru-ward keeps the True Name enshrined within his mind.
The Guru-ward conquers the world and knocks down and slays the Death's myrmidon.
The Guru-ward loses not in the Lord's court.
He alone, whom the Lord unites in His union, through the Guru, knows the worth thereof.
Nanak, it is through the Guru, that one realises the Lord.
This is the quintessence of the Divine discourse, hear thou O Yogi, that without the Name Yog is practised not.
They who are imbued with the Name, remain inebriated night and day, Through the Name attain they the peace.
All become renowned through the Name. It is through the Name, that understanding is attained.
Without the Name, men wear many religious garbs and them the True Lord has Himself strayed.
From the True Guru, the Name is attained, O Yogi and then one comes to know the way of Yoga.
Reflect thou in thy mind and see that without the Name, one is emancipated not, O Nanak.
Thine state and estimation, Thou alone knowest, O Lord, What can any one else say and narrate?
Thou Thyself art unmanifest, Thyself manifest and Thyself enjoyest all the pleasures.
Good many strivers, adepts, spiritual guides and disciples wander seeking Thee out, in Thy will.
They bag Thee for thy Name and Thou blessest them with this alms. Unto Thine vision, O my Lord, I am a sacrifice.
The Imperishable Lord has staged this play. It is through the Guru, that one understands it.
Nanak, the Lord Himself pervades all the ages. Without Him there is no any other second.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Var of Ramkali. 3rd Guru. To be sung to the tune of Jodha and Veera Purbani.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The True Guru is the field of balanced life. He, whom the Lord makes love it,
sow the Name therein; the Name springs up and in the Name he remains merged.
This pride is the seed of birth and death. The fear of this pride flees away from him.
He sows not the seed of pride and it no longer springs up, He lives in the Lord's will and he eats that what the Lord gives him.
When water blends with water, it cannot again be separated.
Such is the wonder of the life of the Guru-ward, O people, come and see.
But what can wretched people see, who themselves have no understanding?
He alone, in whose mind the Lord abides and to whom He shows, beholds Him.
3rd Guru.
The perverse person is the field of sorrow. He sows sorrow and eats sorrow.
In pain he is born, in pain he dies and in taking pride, his life passes away.
He realises not the pain of birth and death. The blind man does blind deeds.
He, who gives; Him he knows not, but clings to that which has been given.
Nanak, he acts as is preordained for him. He can act not otherwise.
3rd Guru.
Meeting with the True Guru, everlasting peace is attained, but he alone meets with him, whom he himself unites.
The sign of everlasting peace is this, that the mind becomes immaculate.
The doubt of ignorance is effaced and one obtains the Divine knowledge.
Nanak sees but one Lord. Wherever he sees, there he finds that Lord.
Pauri.
The True Lord has created this world-throne, as a place, to seat Himself.
The Lord is all by Himself, Thus preaches the Guru's word.
Through His Omnipotence, the Lord has Himself created and fashioned mansions and inns.
He has made the perfect make of the two lights of the moon and the sun.
Of Himself the Lord sees and of Himself He hears. Through the Guru's instruction alone, He is contemplated.
Hail, hail to thee, O True king. True, ever true, is Thy Name. Pause.
Slok.
Kabir, grinding, grinding, I have made myself into the henna paste.
But thou, O my Spouse took no head of me and applied me not ever to Thine feet.
3rd Guru.
He, the Groom, has taken pity on me and keeps me, O Nanak, like the henna.
He Himself grinds, Himself rubs and Himself applies me to His feet. This is the Lord's cup of love.
This is the Lord's cup of Love. He gives it to him, whomsoever, He wills.
Pauri.
Of various varieties, Thou O Lord, hast created the world, In Thy will everyone, comes, goes and merges in thee.
Thou Thyself seest and bloomest. There is not another, but Thee.
As it pleases Thee, so doest Thou keep me, O Lord, It is through the Guru's instruction that I realise Thee.
All derive strength from Thee. As Thou will, so Thou drive the mortals.
As great as Thee, I see none, To whom else should I say and narrate my state?
Slok 3rd Guru.
Strayed by doubt, I have roamed the whole world and have gone crazy by searching.
He, my spouse, blesses me not, with peace. What can avail with Him?
By Guru's grace, meditate thou on God and keep Him enshrined in thy mind.
Nanak, when the Creator shows mercy, seated in his very home, one finds his Lord.
3rd Guru.
Running after worldly affairs, man passes his day and the night he loses in sleep. Uttering untruth, he eats poison.
Like this the egocentric departs bewailing.
Over his head is the Death's mace and through duality, he loses his honour.
He contemplates not God's Name ever, so he continues coming and going again and again.
If by Guru's grace, God's Name abides in his mind, death's mace strikes him not.
Nanak, he becomes the recipient of the Lord's grace and easily remains merged in Him.
Pauri.
Blessing them with the True Guru's instruction, some the Lord yokes to the hymning of His praise.
The Ever-stable True Lord blesses some with His Name.
The air, water and the fire perform His service in His will.
They are in the great fear of the Lord, such is the perfect make that the Lord has made.
The One Lord's will governs all. One attains peace by accepting His will.
Slok.
Such is the touchstone of the Lord O Kabir, that no false one can stand it.
He alone passes the Lord's test, who remains dead while yet alive.
3rd Guru.
How can this mind be overpowered? How can it die while yet alive?
One accepts not the Guru's instruction an no one leaves his self-conceit.
By Guru's grace, man is rid of the pride and then he is emancipated whilst alive.
Nanak, he whom the Lord forgives; him He meets and then no pain overtakes him.
3rd Guru.
Every one says that he is dead while alive, but how can he be emancipated whilst yet alive?
If one takes the medicine of the Lord's love and observes the restraint of His fear, then is he emancipated while yet alive.
Night and day, he peacefully hymns the Lord's praise and through His Name, ferries across the poisonous and dreadful world-ocean.
Nanak, he, on whom is the Lord's grace; He attains to Him through the Guru.
Pauri.
The Lord created duality and the mortals are engrossed in the three modes.
He created god of creation, god of nutrition and god of death, who perform their functions in His will.
The scholars and astrologers read their books, but realise not the Lord's meditation.
All is thine own play, O my True Creator.
He, whom Thou willest; him Thou forgivest and he merges in Thy True Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The false of mind practises falsehood.
He runs after wealth and calls himself penitent.
Deluded by doubt, he wanders at all the pilgrim-stations.
How can such a patient attain the supreme status?
By Guru's grace, some rare penitent practices truth.
Nanak, such a penitent obtains salvation.
3rd Guru.
He alone is an ascetic, who practises this penitence.
Meeting the True Guru, he contemplates the Name.
The penitence of the, service of the True Guru; alone is acceptable.
Nanak, such an ascetic obtains honour in the Lord's court.
Pauri.
The night and day, the Lord created, for the world to do the deeds.
Through the Guru's instruction, the mind is illumined and the darkness is dispelled.
In His will, He creates all and pervades all the woods and grass glades.
The Lord Himself is all-in-all. By the Guru's grace, so, ever utter thou the Lord's Name.
It is through the Name, that one understands everything, The True Lord of Himself, has revealed this to me.
Slok 3rd Guru.
He is not called the world-renouncer, within whose mind there is doubt.
Alms given to him, O Nanak, earns a like reward.
He, who is hungry for the supreme status of the Fear-free and Immaculate Lord,
rare in the one, O Nanak, who gets a chance to offer him food.
3rd Guru.
They are not called the world-renouncers, who take food in other's houses,
and who for the sake of their belly adopt many religious garbs.
They alone are the saints, O Nanak, who enter into inner being.
They search and find their Lord and abide in their own homes.
Pauri.
The sky and the earth are separated from each other, and from within the Lord has given both His true support.
True are all the homes and gates, within is enshrined the True Name.
The will of the True Lord works everywhere and by the Guru's grace one merges in the True Lord.
True is the Lord Himself, true is His throne, seated whereon, He administers true justice.
The Truest of the true pervades all and it is through the Guru, that the Unseable Lord is seen.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The Infinite Lord abides in the world-ocean. The false continue coming and going.
He, who walks according to his own will, suffers great punishment.
In God, the mine of jewels, are all the things, but one attains them by good deed's alone.
Nanak, if one walks in the will of that Lord, he obtains the nine treasures.
3rd Guru.
He, who serves not his True Guru in equipoise, loses his life in pride.
His tongue tastes not the Lord's elixir and his heart-lotus flowers not.
The egocentric dies by eating poison and is ruined by the love of wealth.
Without the Name of one God, accursed is his life and accursed his habitation.
When the True Lord of Himself shows mercy, then becomes he the slave of the Lord's slaves.
Then night and day, he serves the True Guru and leaves not his side ever.
As the lotus remains unaffected in water, so remains he detached in his household.
O slave Nanak, God, the Treasure of virtues, so acts and makes all others act as he wills.
Pauri.
For thirty-six ages, there was utter darkness Then the Lord, of Himself, manifested Himself.
He Himself created the entire creation and Himself blessed it with understanding.
He created the Shastras and Simirtis and made the inventory of vice and virtue.
He, whom the Lord instructs, he is instructed and pleased with His True Name.
By Himself the Lord is pervading all. Of Himself, He forgives and unites one with Himself
Slok 3rd Guru.
This body is all blood. Without Blood, the body can exist not.
They, who are imbued with their Lord; their body contains not the Blood of avarice.
Entertaining the Lord's Fear, the body becomes lean and the blood of greed passes out from within.
As the metal is purified with fire, so does the fear of God destroy the filth of the evil mind.
Nanak, handsome are the persons, who are imbued by enshrining the Lord's Love.
3rd Guru.
Through Ramkali measure, I have enshrined the Lord in my mind. Then alone am I deemed to have been embellished.
When by Guru's instruction, my heart-lotus bloomed, then the Lord blessed me with the treasure of His devotion.
When my doubt was dispelled, then did I wake up and the darkness of my ignorance was removed.
She who loves his Lord, is endowed with infinitely plentiful beauty.
Such an illustrious bride ever enjoys her Groom.
The way-ward brides know not how to decorate themselves with the Name, so they depart after losing their entire life.
They who embellish themselves with something other than the Lord's meditation, are ever born and battered.
They obtain not honour in this world and how the Creator treats them hereafter, that He alone knows.
Nanak, the True Lord alone is ever alive, while the world is in the power of birth and death, both.
God Himself yokes mortals to virtue and vice, They do only that, which the Creator Himself makes them do.
3rd Guru.
Without serving the True Guru, peace is attained not, Save the True Guru, there is no other place to obtain it.
However much man may wish, he attains not to the Guru, unless he is so destined.
He, within whose mind is the sin of avarice, is ruined through the love of another.
His births and deaths end not and engrossed in ego, he suffers pain.
They, who attach their mind to the True Guru; None of them remains empty-handed.
They are summoned not by death's courier, nor do they suffer pain.
Nanak, by Guru's grace, they are emancipated and they merge in the True Lord.
Pauri.
Of Himself, the Lord ever remains detached. All others run after worldly affairs.
Himself the Lord is ever-stable. Others continue coming and going.
Ever, ever contemplating the Lord, the pious persons attain to peace.
They abide in their own home and get merged in the True Lord's praise.
Profound and Unfathomable is the True Lord. It is through the Guru's word, that He is realised.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Meditate thou on the True Name. The True Lord is pervading everywhere.
Nanak, he, who realises the Lord's will, obtains the fruit of truth.
He, who indulges in the mere words of mouth, understands not the True Lord's command.
Nanak, he who accepts God's will, is His devotee. Without accepting it, one is the falsest of the false.
3rd Guru.
The apostates know not what the sweet speech is. Within them is lust wrath and ego.
Place and improper place they know not. Within their heart is avarice and vice.
They come, sit and talk for their self-interest. Them smites the Death's courier.
Hereafter, the mortals are called to account in the Lord's court.
The false ones are thrashed and humiliated. How can the filth of this falsehood be washed off? Let someone think and find out its way.
If one meets with the True Guru, then implants he the Name within him, which destroys all his sins.
Let all the men make obeisance unto that mortal, who utters the Name and meditates on the Name.
The filth of falsehood is washed off with the Lord's Name, Uttering the Name one become truthful.
Ever-stable and life giver is the Beneficent Lord, O slave Nanak, such are whose wondrous plays.
Pauri.
No other Bestower is so great as Thee. Before whom else should I say and narrate my woes.
Thou art obtained by the grace of the Guru, through whom self-conceit is stilled.
True is Thine glory, O Lord. Thou art above sweet and saltish dishes and savour.
He, whom Thou forgivest; Him Thou blessest with Thine vision and unitest with Thyself.
In every heart, the Lord has placed the Nectar. Rare is the one, whom He makes drink it through the Guru.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The narratives of the fore-fathers make their descendants good children.
They accept that which is pleasing to the Guru and perform the deeds accordingly.
Go and consult thou the Simirtis, the Shastras, Vyas, Sukhdev, Narad and all those who utter the sublime words.
They, whom the True Lord attaches, remain attached to the True Name and remember ever the True Name.
Nanak, approved becomes the advent of those in this world, who save all their generations.
3rd Guru.
The disciples, whose spiritual preceptor is blind, too, do the blind deeds.
They walk in their own will and ever utter the grossest falsehood.
They practise falsehood and deception and ever slander others.
Those great slanderers are them-selves drowned and they ruin all their families.
To whatsoever the Lord yokes them, to that they remain yoked. What can those poor creatures do?
Pauri.
The entire creation, that he has created; The Lord keeps all that in His eye.
Some He has yoked to falsehood and deception. Such apostates are ruined.
With Love in their heart, the Guru-wards ever meditate on God.
They, who have virtue in their treasure; in their mouth is the Lord's praise.
Nanak, reflect thou on the Name and hymn the True Lord's glory and praise.
Slok 1st Guru.
The men of charity, give in charity the wealth, amassed by committing sins.
Their Guru goes to their home to impart instruction.
The woman loves the man for his money,
otherwise she cares not, where from he comes and where he goes.
No body obeys the Shastras and the Vedas.
Everyone worships but himself.
Becoming a judge, he sits to administer justice.
He tells the rosary and mutters God's Name.
Taking bribe, he does injustice.
If someone asks him, then he quotes and reads out some aphorism.
The Muslim creed permeates the ears and the hearts of the Hindus.
They plunder people and indulge in back-biting.
They plaster their cooking-square to become pure.
Such is the Hindu. Let anyone see it.
The Yogi, with matted hair and ashes on his body is like a householder.
The children weep before and after him.
He obtains not Yoga, for the has missed the way.
What for has he put ashes on his head?
Nanak, this is the sign of the Darkage,
that everyone says that he himself knows everything.
1st Guru.
The Hindu comes to the house of the Hindu.
Chanting the sermon, he puts on the yarn-sacred thread on the boy's neck.
Putting on the thread, he commits sins.
For his ablutions and washings, he is approved not.
The Muslim praises his faith.
Without the Guru and the Divine teacher, none is accepted.
Even when the way is pointed out, rare is the one who reaches there.
Without good deeds, heaven is attained not.
One goes to the Yogi's monastery to ask the way to God.
For that purpose, he puts rings in his ears.
With ear-rings on, he wanders about the world.
He realises not, the Creator-Lord is everywhere.
As many as are the beings, so many are the travelers.
When the death warrant comes, none can make any delay.
He, who knows the Lord here, recognises Him in that place.
Others, whether Hindus or Muslims, are but praters.
All mortal's accounts are taken in the Lord's court,
and none is saved without good deeds.
He, who utters the Name of the Truest of the true,
O Nanak, is not called to account, hereafter.
Pauri.
The ramparted castle of the body is called the mansion of the Master.
Within it, the mortal finds the rubies and gems, by uttering the God's Name, through the Guru's grace.
Implant thou the Lord Master's Name in thy body, which is the immensely comely palace of God.
The egocentrics ever boil in the love of riches and ruin themselves.
The One God is the Lord of all. It is through perfect destiny that He is obtained.
Slok 1st Guru.
There is no perfection through suffering, no perfection through peace and no perfection by wandering like the animals in water.
The True Lord is attained not by shaving off the head-hair, nor is the True Lord obtained by reading or journeying through the country.
Adeption there is not in abiding midst trees, plants and stones, nor in getting oneself lopped off or suffering hardship.
Perfection is obtained not by binding the elephants with chains, nor is perfection obtained by grass-grazing the cows.
If He, in whose hand perfection is, blesses, then alone one obtains it, He whom the Lord gives; by him alone it is received.
Nanak, he alone is blessed with glory, within whose mind the Name is contained.
Says the Lord, All the bodies are mine and I am midst all, Who can tell him the way, who is strayed by me?
He, whom I show the way; who can mislead him?
Who can show the path to him, whom I stray from the very outset?
1st Guru.
he alone is the house-holder, who checks his passion,
and begs from the Lord, meditation, hard toil and self-restraint.
He, who with his body gives in charity and alms all he can;
That house-holder is pure like the water of Ganges.
Says Nanak, hear thou, O Ishar the Lord is the Embodiment of truth.
There is no sign and form of the supreme Reality.
1st Guru.
He alone is detached, who burns his self-conceit.
The hard-toil, he makes his food obtained through begging.
He, who asks for alms in the town of his mind.
That forsaker mounts to the Lord's city.
(Answers Guru Nanak) Hear thou, O Gorakh, the Lord is the Embodiment of truth.
The Supreme Reality has neither sign nor form.
1st Guru.
He alone is the renunciator, who embraces renunciation.
He realises the Immaculate Lord. Abiding in the lower and upper regions.
He gathers the moon of coolness and the sun of gnosis.
Of that renunciator, the body-wall falls not.
(Answers Guru Nanak) Hear thou, O Gopi Chand, the Lord is the Embodiment of truth.
The Supreme Reality has no sign and form.
1st Guru.
He alone is the disguiser, who washes off his body's filth.
His body's fire, he burns with the Lord's Name.
Even in dream, he emits not his seed.
Such a disguiser ages not, nor dies he.
(Answers Guru Nanak) Hear, O Charpat, the Lord is the Embodiment of truth.
The Supreme Reality has no sign and form.
1st Guru.
He alone is desireless, who turns towards the Lord.
God, the Pillar, he fixes in his tenth gate.
Night and day, he remains absorbed in hearty meditation.
Such a desireless person, is like the True Lord.
(Answers Guru Nanak) Hear thou, O Bharthar, the Lord is the Embodiment of truth.
The Supreme Reality has no sign and form.
1st Guru.
How is sin eradicated? How is the way to real life found?
What is the use of taking food by having the ears torn?
It is the One Name, that eternally inheres, both when the universe is in existence and non-existence.
Which is the word, whereby the mind remains steady?
If man endures sunshine (peace) and shade (pain) alike,
then alone, says Nanak, he can utter the Name of the Great God.
Becoming disciples, people engage in the six system.
They are neither the true worldly men, nor the true forsakers of the world.
He, who remains absorbed in the formless Lord;
why goes he to beg alms?
Pauri.
That alone is said to be the God's temple, wherefrom the God is realised.
Realising the Pervading soul to be everywhere, through the Guru's instruction, one finds the Lord in the human body itself.
Search thou not ever the Lord without. The creator is within thy very home.
The way-word know not the worth of God's temple and they loses their life.
The One Lord is pervading all and is obtained through Guru's teaching.
Slok 3rd Guru.
It is only the fool, who hears the words of the fool.
What are the signs for a fool? What deeds fool does?
A fool is he who is stupid and dies of self-pride,
he is ever in misery and in misery he abides.
If the very dear one falls into a well; his friend should adopt some device to take him out.
He, who is turned Guru-wards, embraces the Lord Meditation and he remains detached.
uttering the Lord's Name, he saves himself, and they who are drowning are also saved through him.
He does that, what He, the Lord, wills and endures what comes from Him.
1st Guru.
Says Nanak, hear thou, O man, the true instruction.
Seated in judgement and taking out His ledger, God shall call thee to account.
The rebels of the Lord, with outstanding against them, shall be called out.
The death's courier, Azrail, shall be appointed to punish them.
Entangled in the narrow lane, they shall see no way of escape or coming and going.
Falsehood shall come to an end, O Nanak and truth shall ultimately prevail.
Pauri.
The body and everything belongs to God and God Himself is pervading all.
God's worth can be appraised not and nothing can be said regarding it.
By Guru's grace, the Lord is praised and one is imbued with His meditation.
His body and mind are all reverdured and his ego is eradicated.
Everything is the Lord's play. Rare is the one who understands this by Guru's grace.
Slok 1st Guru.
With the award of the punishment of the thousand marks of vulva, Indar did weep.
Paras Ram returned home crying.
Ajai wailed, when made to eat the dung he gave in charity.
Such is the punishment, meted out in God's court.
Rama wept when he was exiled,
and got separated from Sita and Lachhman.
Ten-headed Rawan, wept when he Lost Ceylon,
but he who took away Sita with the beat of tambourine.
Became servants and wailed the Pandwas,
whose Master lived with them.
Janmeja bewailed that he went astray.
For an offence he became a sinner.
The Divine teachers, seers and religious guides weep,
lest they should suffer agony at the Last moment.
The kings weep, having their ears torn,
and they go abegging from house to house.
The miser weeps when his amassed wealth parts company with him.
The learned man cries when his learning fails him.
The young woman weeps for she has no husband.
Nanak, the whole world is in distress.
He, who believes in the Name, becomes victorious.
No other deed is of any account.
2nd Guru.
Contemplation, penance and everything are obtained by believing in the Lord. All other occupations are vain.
Nanak, obey thou Him, who is worthy of obedience, By the Guru's grace, the Lord is realised
Pauri.
The union of the body and the swan-soul was writ by the Creator-Lord from the very beginning.
The Lord is Unmanifestly pervading amongst all. It is through the Guru, that he is revealed.
He who hymns God's praise and repeats His praise, gets merged in His praise, gets merged in His praise.
Wholly true is the Guru's true-word. Through it, one meets in the union of the True Lord.
He, the Lord, is everything by Himself. He, Himself blesses one with glory.
Slok 2nd Guru.
O Nanak, if a blind man goes to assay jewels,
he shall not know their worth and shall return after making an exhibition of himself.
2nd Guru.
The beg of jewel, the Guru, the jeweler, has come and opened.
The Gurbani, the bag of jewels, remains merged in the minds of both the Guru, the vendor of commodity and the sikh, the vender.
They alone, who have virtue in their skirt, O Nanak, purchase the Name jewel.
They, who know not the worth of the jewels of the Gurbani and the Name, wander like the blind men in the world.
Pauri.
The body fortress has nine doors. The tenth is kept unseen.
The adamantine shutters of the tenth gate open not, Through the Guru's word alone they get opened.
The melodious celestial strain rings there, By the Guru's word it is heard.
The Divine light shines in the mind of those who hear the music of the tenth gate. Such persons meet God, by embracing meditation.
The one Lord, who has Himself made the world, is contained amongst all.
Slok 2nd Guru.
He alone who is blind, follows the road shown by the blind one.
Why should he, O Nanak, who can see, stray into the wilderness?
They, who have no eyes in their face, are not called blind.
They alone are blind, O Nanak, who stray away from their Lord.
2nd Guru.
He, whom the Lord has blinded; him He alone can make see clearly.
As he knows, so acts he, even though some one may instruct him a hundred times.
Where God, the Real Thing, is Seen not, know that self-conceit prevails there.
Nanak, how can the purchaser buy the Thing, if he can recognise it not?
2nd Guru.
How can he be called blind, who is blinded thorough the Lord's will?
Nanak, it is he, who understands not the Lord's will, who is called blind.
Pauri.
The Lord of the country and all the foreign lands, abides in the walled citadel of the body.
The Lord Himself sits in trance and Himself is contained amongst all.
He Himself created the world and Himself remains hidden therein.
The Lord is known through the Guru's service and His truth becomes manifest
The Truest of the true Lord is all by Himself The Guru has imparted this understanding to me.
Slok 1st Guru.
Night is the field of summer crop of lust and day is the field of winter crop of wrath.
Avarice is the suitable Time to sow falsehood, the seed, and worldly love, the tenant and the ploughman.
Thought is the plough and evil the corn-heap, This is what one earns and eats in the Lord's will.
When he is called to account, then his life, as also of his parents, who bore him, goes in vain.
1st Guru.
Make thou God's fear the farm, purity the water, truth and contentment the bullocks,
humility the plough, mind the tiller, meditation the proper condition of the soil and God's union the Suitable time.
The Lord's Name, make thou thy seed and His grace thine corn-heap. false to thee.
Nanak, if the Merciful Master shows His mercy, then thine separations shall all be ended.
Pauri.
The perverse person is enveloped by the darkness of worldly love. He talks of the love of another.
In duality, there is everlasting pain and he ever churns the water in vain.
The pious persons contemplates God's Name and by churning obtains the quintessence.
With the shedding of Divine Light, in his mind, his innerself is illuminated and through he attains to his God.
The Lord Himself strays the mortals in error, One can question that not.
Slok 2nd Guru.
Nanak, be thou not anxious for the maintenance, The anxiety. is for Him.
He has created creatures in water; Them too He gives sustenance.
No one runs any shop there, nor engages in tillage.
No business is ever transacted there an no one buys nor sells.
Animals are the food of animals such viand, the Lord gives them.
They, whom He has created in the ocean; Their care too. the Lord takes.
Nanak, cherish thou not anxiety Thy anxiety rests with Him.
1st Guru.
Nanak this mortal is the fish and death an avaricious fisherman.
The blind man thinks not. Quit unexpectedly, the net is cast.
The blind man thinks not. Quite unexpectedly, is the soul and it shall depart, bound with anxiety.
If the Lord casts His merciful glance, then blends He, the soul, with Himself.
Pauri.
Ever, true, ever true are the persons, who drink God's elixir.
By Guru's grace, the True Lord abides in the man's mind and he then strikes the true bargain.
Everything is within the home. The very fortunate ones alone obtain it.
Hymning the Lord's praise, the mortal's inner desire is stilled.
The Lord Himself unites man in His union and Himself blesses him with understanding.
Slok 1st Guru.
The cotton is ginned, corded spun and woven.
Arranging and arraying, the cloth is washed white.
The scissors shears, the tailor tears and the needle and thread sew the cloth.
Thus is one's tattered honour sewn up, through the Lord's praise and one lives the true life, O Nanak.
Becoming worn off the cloth is torn and the needle and thread mend it.
It lasts not for a month or a fortnight. It only endures for an hour or a moment.
Truth grows not old and once stitched up, is torn not ever.
Nanak, the Truest of the True is the Lord. as long as He is contemplated, so long is he seen.
1st Guru.
The scalpel is of truth and truth the pure steel.
1st make is incomparably beauteous.
It is sharpened on the stone of Guru's word.
It is put in the scabbard of virtue.
if one is killed with that, O Sheikh,
then the blood of avarice will be seen to issue forth.
He, who is slaughtered thus, gets attached to the True Lord.
Nanak, he merges in the Lord's vision,
1st Guru.
At thy waist is a handsome dagger and thou art mounted on a beauteous horse.
Take thou not pride, O Nanak lest thou should fall head long on the ground,
Pauri.
He alone, who walks in the Guru's will, meets with the Lord, through the society of saints.
They alone who in their skirt have the viaticum of the Lord's wealth, become truthful by contemplating the True Lord.
The saints look beauteous, singing God's praise and by Guru's instruction become immovable.
By the Guru's sublime instruction, the jewel of hl Lord's meditation is enshrined in the mind,
The Lord Himself unites man in His union and Himself blesses him with glory.
Slok 3rd Guru.
All are involved in desires Rare is the one who is desireless.
Nanak, fruitful is the advent of him, who dies in life.
3rd Guru.
Nothing is in the hand of hope. How can one be rid of hope?
What can this poor thing do, when He the Lord Himself, strays the mortal?
Pauri.
Accursed is the life in this world without the True Name.
The Bestower of the bestowers is my Master. Ever-stable is this wealth of His True Name.
He, who remembers the Lord at every breath; immaculate is that person.
With thy tongue utter thou the Name of the One Unapproachable Lord, the searcher of hearts.
The Lord is pervading all over. Nanak is a sacrifice unto Him.
Slok 1st Guru.
The Union between the lake (Satguru) and the swan (Gurmukh) is ordained from the very beginning. So it please the Lord.
In the lake are the jewels and pearls. They are the feed of the swans.
The crane and the raven, through very wise, remain not in the lake.
Their sustenance is found not there. Their food is different.
Practising truth, the True One is obtained. False is the pride of the false one.
Nanak, them alone meets the Guru; For whom such command of the Primal Lord is ordained.
First Guru.
Immaculate is my Lord, if any one reflects on Him.
Nanak, serve thou Him ever, who ever and ever guides thee.
Nanak, wait thou on Him, by serving whom sorrow departs,
Demerits flee, virtues permeate the man and peace is enshrined within his mind.
Pauri.
Of Himself, the Lord is pervading all over and Himself He assumes profound trance.
Himself the Lord instructs, It is through the Guru. that one is propitiated.
Some, He Himself strays into wilderness and some He attaches to His devotional service.
He alone understands Him, whom He, of Himself, instructs. Himself the Lord attached the mortal to His Name.
Nanak, meditating on the Lord's Name, true glory is gained.
Var of Ramkali 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Slok 5th Guru.
As I heard the True Guru to be, so I have seen him.
The separated ones, he unites with the Lord. He is the mediator at the Lord. He is the mediator at the Lord's court.
He implants the spell of the God's Name in man's mind and rids him of the ailment of ego.
Nanak, the Lord makes those meet the True Guru, whose union is pre-destined.
5th Guru.
If One Lord be my Friend, then all are my friends. If the one Lord be inimical, then everyone quarrels with me.
The Perfect Guru has shown me, that without the Name everything is in vain.
The mammon-worshippers and the evil persons, who are attached to other, relishes and wander in existences.
Slave Nanak has realised the God Lord by the grace of the great of the great True Guru.
Pauri.
The Creator Himself has created the creation.
He Himself is the Perfect Banker and Himself earns the profit.
Himself He has made the universe and Himself is imbued with bliss.
The worth of the Omnipotence of the Unseen Lord can be ascertained not.
The Lord is Inaccessible, Unfathomable, Infinite and the remotest of the remote.
He himself is the great Emperor and Himself the Minister.
None knows the Lord's worth, not any one knows how great is His resting place.
The True Lord is all by Himself and through the Guru, becomes he manifest.
Slok 5th Guru.
Hear, O beloved friend of mine, show me thou my True Guru.
I shall surrender my soul to him and shall ever keep him clasped to my heart.
Without the One True Guru, accursed is the life in this world.
O slave Nanak, them alone the Lord make meet the True Guru, with whom he ever abides
5th, Guru.
Within my mind is the yearning to meet Thee. How can I obtain Thee, O my Lord?
Search out some such friend, who may unite me with my love.
The perfect Guru has united me with my master, Wherever I see I find Him there.
Slave Nanak serves the Lord. As great as He, there is not any other.
Pauri.
With what mouth should praise the ever-giving beneficent Lord,
who mercifully preserves us and reaches us sustenance?
No one is under the sway of another, There is but one support of all.
Giving His hand, the Lords cherishes all, like His children.
The Lord enacts joyous plays, which one can understand not the least.
The Omnipotent Lord lends support to all. Unto Him, I am a sacrifice.
Night and day sing thou the praise of Him, who is worthy of being eulogised.
They, who repair to the Guru's Feet, enjoy the Lord's elixir.
Slok 5th Guru.
The Lord has widened the narrow lane for me and keeps me whole along with my family
He Himself has arranged mine affairs, That Lord, ever remember I.
Like Mother and Father, the Lord hugs me to His bosom and cherishes me like His tiny child.
All the sentient beings have become compassionate to me, O Nanak, and God has enraptured me by His grace.
5th Guru.
To ask for aught but Thee, O Lord, is the arch affliction of all the afflictions.
Bless Thou me with Thy Name that I may feel contented and my mind's hunger be satisfied.
The Guru has reverdured the woods and all vegetation. What wonder is it if he blesses the mortal?
Pauri.
That such Beneficent Lord, I forget not in my mind.
Even for a moment, a trice and an instant, I can do not without Him.
Within and without, the Lord is with the mortal. How can he hide anything from Him?
He, whose honour the Lord Himself protects, crosses the terrible world-ocean.
He alone is the saint, a divine and the penitent, in whom the Lord enshrines His might.
He alone is perfect and supreme, within whom the Lord enshrines His might.
He alone endures the unendurable, whom Thou, O God, Thyself causeth to endure.
Him alone meets the True Lord who within his mind enshrines the Guru's hymns.
Slok 5th Guru.
Blessed are the beauteous measures, uttering which the entire thirst is quenched.
Blessed and handsome are the persons, who through the Guru, utter the Lord's Name.
They, who with single mind contemplate the One Lord; unto; them I am ever a sacrifice.
I long for the dust of their feet. It is through the Lord's grace, that one is blessed with it.
They who are imbued with the love of the World-Lord; unto them am I devoted.
My mind's condition, I explain to them and implore them to unite me with my God and the pain of my birth and death has departed.
The perfect Guru has united me with my birth and death has departed.
Slave Nanak has attained to the Infinitely Beauteous Lord and now he goes not anywhere else.
5th Guru.
Blest is the time, blest the hour, blest the moment, sublime the instant,
auspicious the day and the opportunity, when the Guru's vision is beheld.
Obtaining the Inaccessible and Infinite Lord, the heart's desires are fulfilled.
Then, one's ego and worldly love are eradicated and one leans only on the True Name.
He, who takes to God's service, with him, O serf Nanak, the whole world is emancipated.
Pauri.
Rare is the person, whom the Lord blesses with His devotional service and the hymning of His praise and excellences.
He, whom the Lord blesses with His treasures; him He calls not to account again.
They, who are imbued with the Lord's love; they remain absorbed in ecstasy.
They have the support of the one Name, and the Name alone is their viand.
For their sake, the world eats and enjoys.
Their Beloved Lord, belongs to them alone.
They, whom the Guru comes and meets; they alone realise their Lord.
I am devoted unto those, who are pleasing to their Lord.
Slok 5th Guru.
With One God is friendship and the One God alone love I.
God alone is my friend and with God alone is my association.
My conversation is with the Lord alone, who neither wrinkles nor turns away His face.
He knows the state of one's mind and disregards not love, ever.
God alone is my counselor, who is potent to destroy and to create.
God alone is my bountiful giver who places His hand on the heads of the givers of the world.
I have the support of the one Lord, who is omnipotent over the heads of all.
Placing his hand on my forehead, the saintly True Guru has united me with the Lord.
The Guru, who has emancipated the whole world, has made me meet the Great Lord.
My mind's aspirations are fulfilled and I have attained to the preordained union with God.
Nanak has obtained the Lord's True Name and he ever enjoys dainties.
5th Guru.
The friendship of the egocentrics is an alliance with worldly riches.
While we look on, they flee away and remain not stable, ever.
Until they have raiment and viand, till then they cling to the alliance.
The day, when they get nothing; on that day, they utter abuse.
The mind-wards are ignorant and blind and know not the state of the soul,
The false joint lasts not, It is like the two stones joined with mud.
The blind ones understand not themselves and are engrossed in the false worldly occupations.
Entangled in false worldly attachment, they pass their life taking excessive pride.
He, to whom the Lord extends His mercy from the very first, performs perfectly virtuous deeds.
Those persons alone, O Slave Nanak, are saved, who enter the sanctuary of the True Guru.
Pauri.
They, who are imbued with the Lord's vision, utter the truth.
They, who recognise their Lord; how can the dust of their feet be obtained?
The sin soiled soul becomes pure in their association.
The door of doubt opens and the mortal sees the Lord's true mansion.
He, whom the Lord shows His place, receives not a push.
My mind and body are enraptured, if Thou, O Lord, see me even for an instant with Thine eye of grace.
Attaching to the Guru's word, one attains to the nine treasures of the Name's riches.
He alone is blessed with the dust of the saints' feet, on whose brow good fortune is recorded.
Slok 5th Guru.
O thou deer-eyed bride, I utter unto the True words, that shall emancipate thee.
O beauteous bride, hear thou my comely words, that thy Beloved is the only prop of thy soul.
Thou hast contracted love with the evil person. Tell and show me thou the reason of it.
I am not deficient in anything, nor I am sad; therefore, I am not without virtue either.
Through evil-understanding I have abandoned and lost my fascinating and beauteous Beloved and have become an ill-fated wretch.
On my own, I stray not, nor go I amiss and I harbour not ego, nor commit I any offence.
Hear Thou, O Lord, my true supplication or message. As Thou hast yoked me, so am I yoked.
She alone is the loved bride and she alone is fortunate, to whom her groom extends His grace.
Her Spouse rids her of all her demerits. Hugging her to His bosom, the Lord embellishes her.
The Unfortunate bride makes a supplication; When shall my turn come, O Nanak?
All the loved brides make merry. Bless Thou me, too, with one night of enjoyment, O my Master! the Enemy of ego.
5th Guru.
Why waverest thou, O my soul? God is the Fulfiller of desires.
Contemplate thou thy mighty True Guru, He is the eradicator of all agonies.
O my soul, meditate thou on the Lord's Name, that all they sins and demerits may be washed off.
They, for whom there is such a preordained writ, embrace affection for the Formless Lord.
They abandon the relish of mammon and amass the infinite wealth of the Name.
The eight watches thorough, they remain absorbed in the love of the one Lord and submit to the will of the Infinite God.
Serf Nanak asks for but one boon; O Lord, bless Thou me with Thine vision; for, I love Thee heartily.
Pauri.
He, within whose mind Thou enterest, O Lord, obtains ever lasting. Peace.
He, within whose mind Thou enterest, O Lord, suffers not at the hands of death's courier
He who remembers Thee, O Lord; him no anxiety befalls,
He, whose Friend the creator is; all his affairs are adjusted.
He, who meditates on Thee, O Lord acceptable becomes that person.
He, who cherishes Thee, O Lord, gathers great wealth.
He, who cherishes Thee, O Lord, is gifted with huge family.
He, who thinks of Thee, O Lord, emancipates his lineage.
Slok 5th Guru.
The man is blind within and blind without, but he falsely and pretendedly sings the Lord's praise.
He washes his body, inscribes religious-marks on it and greatly runs after wealth.
The filth of ego is removed not from within him and he comes and goes over and over again.
Engrossed in sleep and tormented by lust, he utters God's Name with his mouth.
He is a Vaishnav by Name but is yoked to the deeds of ego. Thrashing husk, what fruit can be obtained?
Sitting amongst swans, the crane becomes not a swan, Sitting there he ever fixes his gaze on the fish.
When the assembly of swans discriminatingly sees, then it finds that they cannot ever have an alliance with the cranes.
The swans peck at jewels and pearls and the herons go out in search of frogs.
The poor heron flies away, lest it should so happen that he may be recognised.
Whither Thou attached the mortal, O Lord. thither he is attached, Why should he blame anyone, when Thou so willest?
The True Guru is the lake, brimful with emeralds. He, who meets with the True Guru, obtains them.
In the True Guru's will the sikh swans gather at the Guru's lake.
The Mansarowar is filled with the wealth of emeralds and jewels. The sikh eat and expend this wealth and it exhausts not.
The swan recedes not from the Mansrowar. It so pleases my Creator.
O slave Nanak, the sikh on whose brow good destiny is writ from the very beginning; He alone comes to the Guru.
He saves himself, saves his entire lineage and emancipates the whole world.
5th Guru.
He is called a Brahman and wanders in many ways. He is hard like the uncookable grain of Phaseolus aconilifolious.
In his mind is worldly attached, he is ever engrossed in doubt, and his body remains not stable.
False is his coming and false his going. He ever remains on the look-out of wealth.
If one tells the truth, then is he vexed, Within his mind is immense wrath.
The evil fool is involved in mal-intellect and wicked under-standing To his soul is attached. the worldly love.
He, the deceiver, abides with the five deceivers. abides with the five deceivers. It is the comradeship of the like one.
When, true Guru, the jeweller assays him, then he is exposed to be but iron.
Mixed and mingled with others, he was passed on as genuine in many places. Now his veil is lifted and he stands naked before all.
If he enters the True Guru's sanctuary, the shall he be transmuted into gold from iron-dross.
Uninimical is the True Guru. He looks on the son and foe alike. Removing demerits, he renders the human body pure.
Nanak, he on whose forehead there is such a pre-ordained writ, loves the True Guru.
Ambrosial is the word of the perfect True Guru. It abides within the mind of him, to whom the Guru is compassionate.
His comings and goings end and for ever and aye he abides in peace.
Pauri.
That begin alone understands Thee, O Lord, with whom Thou art pleased.
The being, whom Thou lovest, O God; he is exonerated in Thy court.
He, on whom is Thine grace, O Master; his ego is stilled.
He, with whom Thou art pleased, O Lord; his sins are effaced.
He, one whose side the Lord is, becomes fearless.
He, unto whom Thou art merciful. O Master is rendered truthful.
He, on whom is Thine mercy, O Lord; him fire touches not.
Thou, O God, art ever compassionate to him, who receives instruction from the Guru.
Slok 5th Guru.
O Merciful Master, show Thou mercy unto me and Thyself grant me pardon.
Falling at the feet of the True Guru, ever, ever, contemplate I Thine Name.
Abide Thou, O Lord, within my mind and body, that my suffering may cease.
Giving Thy Hand, save Thou me, o my Master that I be rid of all the fears.
Yoke Thou me to this service, O Lord, that day and night, I may sing Thine praise.
The ailment of self-conceit is eradicated in the society of saints,
The one Lord is pervading amidst all.
By Guru's grace, I have verily attained to the Truest of the true Lord.
O my Merciful Master, take Thou pity on me and bless me with Thine praise.
This is what Nanak lives the most, that he may be enraptured by seeing Thy vision, O Lord.
5th Guru.
Contempt thou but one Lord in thy mind and seek but the shelter of the one.
Contract thou love with the one Lord Without Him there is not another place.
Beg thou the one Munificent Master and thou shalt be blessed with everything.
Within thy mind and body, meditate thou on the one Lord alone with every breath and morsel of thine.
The true treasure of the Name-Nectar, is obtained by the Guru's grace.
Very fortunate are the saintly persons, within whose mind the Lord has come to abide.
God is pervading the ocean, land, nether world and sky and there is not another.
In the Lord's will, Nanak contemplates the Name and the Name he utters.
Pauri.
He whose Saviour Thou art, O Lord, Him, who can slay?
He, whose Saviour Thou art, O Lord; he conquers the three worlds.
He, on whose side Thou art, O Lord; sparkling becomes his face.
He, on whose side Thou art, is the purest of the pure.
He, on whom is Thine grace, O Lord, is not called to account.
He, on whom is Thy pleasure, O Lord, partakes of Thine nine treasures.
He, on whose side Thou art, O Lord, what subservience can lie have?
He, on whom is Thy mercy, embraces Thine meditation, O Lord.
Slok 5th Guru.
Be Thou merciful, O my Lord, that I may pass my life in the society of saints.
They, who forget Thee, are born to die again and again and their sorrows end not ever.
5th Guru.
In thy heart, remember thou thy True Guru, whether thou art on the difficult path, or hillock or wharf.
Because uttering the Lord God's Name, no one shall obstruct thy path.
Pauri.
There Thou art, O Omnipotent Lord, where there is none else.
There in the fire of mother's womb, Thou protectest the mortal, O Lord.
Hearing Thy Name, the Death's couriers leave off the Mortal.
The dreadful, formidable and unfathomable world-ocean is crossed through the Guru's instruction.
They, who feel thirst for Thee partake of Thy Nectar.
This is the only virtuous deed in the Darkage, that one sings the praise of the World-Lord.
The Master is merciful to all. He takes care of everyone at every breath.
O Nanak, none who longingly comes to Thine door, O Lord, returns empty-handed.
Slok 5th Guru.
O Transcendent Lord! he, whom Thou givest Thy Name's support; knowest not another.
Inaccessible, Inapprehensible, Omnipotent, True and Munificent is my Master.
Thou, O Lord, art Moveless Uninimical and True and true is Thy court.
Thine worth can be told not. Thou hast no limit, this and that end.
To ask for aught else, but the Lord, is vain, All other relishes are poison and dust.
They alone are in peace and they the True kings, whose dealings are true.
They, who cultivate affection for the Lord's Name, are blessed with the quintessence of poise and peace.
Nanak, meditates on the One Lord and seeks the dust of the feet of the saints.
5th Guru.
Singing the Lord's praise, thou shalt obtain everlasting bliss, peace and ease.
Forsake thou other cleverness, O Nanak, thou shalt be saved only through the Name.
Pauri.
Thou, O Lord, comest not in one's power, by greatly despising the world.
Thou, comest not in One's power, by reading the Vedas.
Thou comest not in one's power, by bathing at the shrines.
Thou, O Lord, comest not in the mortal's power by roaming the world through.
Thou, O Lord, comest not in the mortal's power through any cleverness.
Thou comest not in man's power by giving plentiful alms.
All are in Thy power, O my Inaccessible and Inapprehensible Lord.
Thou, O Lord, art in the power of Thine devoted slaves. Thou art the strength of Thy saints.
Slok 5th Guru.
The Lord, Himself, of Himself, is the physician.
These physicians burden the soul with malady.
The Guru's word is the only ambrosial and delicious medicine to eat.
Nanak, he, within whose mind it abides; all his ailments are eradicated.
5th Guru.
In the Lord's will, man skips about and in His will he sits still.
In His will, he endures weal and woe alike.
In His will, day and night, he utters the Name.
Nanak, he alone remembers the Name, who is so blessed.
In the Lord's will, one lives and in the Lord's will, one lives and in the Lord's will, he dies.
In his will, he becomes small and great.
In the Lord's will are pain, peace and pleasure.
By God's command, the mortal reflects on the ever-efficacious Gurbani.
O Nanak, he whom the Lord yokes to His meditation;
His comings and goings end, in His will.
Pauri.
I am a sacrifice, unto the minstrel, who is and attendant of Thine, O my Master.
I am devoted unto that eulogist, who hymns the praise of the Infinite Lord.
Blessed, blessed is the bard, for whom the Formless Lord longs.
Fortunate is that bard, who has access to the gate of the True Lord's court.
He, the bard, contemplates Thee alone, O Lord, and day and night sings Thy praise.
He asks for the Nectar-Name and is not vanquished ever.
True are his robes and viands and within his mind he keeps enshrined the Lord's Love.
Meritorious is that praiser, who enshrines affection for his Lord.
Slok 5th Guru.
Nectar is the Guru's word, sweet is its relish and ambrosial is the Lord's Name.
Within thy mind, body and heart, meditate, thou on God and sing the Lord's praises, the eight watches through.
O Guru's disciples! hearken ye the Guru's counsel. This alone is your life's true aim.
This way your invaluable life shall become fruitful and you shall embrace love for the Lord in your mind.
Remembering the Lord, one obtains plentiful peace, poise and pleasure and gets rid of grief.
Nanak, repeating God's Name, peace wells up and one obtains room in the Lord's Court.
5th Guru.
The Perfect Guru imparts this instruction, O Nanak, that the mortal should contemplate the Name.
In the Lord's will, man practises worship, penance and self-discipline and in His will He redeems him.
In His will, the Lord goads the mortal in existence and in His will He forgives him.
In His will we receive pain and pleasure and in His will we do the deeds.
Fashioning the dust into form in His will, the Lord, in His will installs His Light into it.
In His will, the Lord makes man enjoy dainties and in His will He denies them to Him.
In the Lord's will man lands in hell and heaven and in His will he falls to the ground.
Nanak, rare is the One, whom the Lord, by His order, attaches to His meditation.
Pauri.
I live by constantly hearing the magnificence of the Lord's True Name.
In an instant, the Name emancipates the persons, who are ignorant like the beasts and goblins.
So day and night and for ever and aye, I meditate on Thy Name, O my Master.
The Hideous thirst and hunger are satiated with Thy Name, O God.
Disease, sorrow and suffering flee from him, within whose mind the Name dwells.
He alone attains to his Beloved, who utters with Love the Guru's word.
The Infinite Lord saves the beings of the continents and the worlds.
O True Lord, My Beloved, Thou alone art worthy of Thine celebrity.
Slok 5th Guru.
Lured by the dye of saf-flower; O Nanak, I have left and lost my Venerable dear Friend.
Thine worth, O my Friend, I can appraise not, Without Thee I can fetch not even half a shell as my price.
5th Guru.
My mother-in-law is my enemy, my father-in-law burns me at every step, O Nanak.
When Thou, O Lord, art my Friend, then let all go round sifting dust.
Pauri.
Thou, O Lord, removest the pain of him, within whose mind Thou abidest.
He, within whose mind, Thou, O Lord, abidest; he loses not ever.
He, whom the Perfect Guru meets, is assuredly emancipated.
He, whom the Lord attached to truth, meditates on the True Name.
He, to whose hand the Name treasure falls, seeks naught else.
He, who loves but One Lord; him alone deem thou a saints.
He, who is the lover of God's feet, becomes the dust of the feet of all.
Everything is Thy wondrous play and the entire world is Thine.
Slok 5th Guru.
From my mind, O Nanak, I have wholly banished praising and slandering others and have forsaken and abandoned all other worldly affairs.
I have seen all the kinsmen to be false; then have I attached myself to Thine skirt, O my Lord.
5th Guru.
O my Sire Guru, ramblings and roaming in many foreign lands and paths, I have become crazy.
But when meeting the Guru, I found my Friend, then did I sleep in comfort and ease.
Pauri,
When man forgets Thee, O Lord, then all the sufferings and sorrows cling to him.
If he makes lakhs of efforts, even then he is not rid of them, ever.
He, who forgets the Name, is called a poor man.
He, who forgets the Lord's Name; He wanders in existences.
He, who remembers not his Master; him the Death's myrmidon awards punishment.
He, within whose mind the spouse enters not; he is accounted an ailing person.
He within whose mind the Lord enters not, is exceedingly proud.
He, who forgets the Name, is miserable in this world.
Slok 5th Guru.
Like Thee, O Lord, I have seen not another. Thou alone art pleasing to Nanak's mind.
I am a sacrifice unto that friend, the intercessor, meeting whom I have recognised my spouse.
5th Guru.
Beautiful are the feet, when they move towards Thee, O Lord and beautiful is the head that falls at Thine feet.
Beauteous is the mouth, when it hymns Thy praise, O Lord, and beauteous is the soul, which seeks Thine protection.
Pauri.
Meeting the Lord's brides, I chant the Lord's glories in the congregation of saints.
My home is now rendered in order and I shall transmigrate not again.
My evil understanding, sin and false reputation are dispelled.
I have become sweet-natured and supreme and truth now abides within my mind.
Within and without, I see the One Lord and one is my way.
Within my mind, I thirst for the Lord's vision and I am the handmaiden of His lotus-feet.
When my Groom enjoys me, I am embellished and decorated.
When such became the Lord's will, I meet Him through good destiny.
Slok 5th Guru.
All the virtues I have obtained from Thee, O Sire Master. How could I, the meritless one, achieve these otherwise, O Nanak?
As great as Thee, O Lord, there is no other donor. I, the beggar, ever beg Thee.
5th Guru.
Seeing my body languishing, I have become crest-fallen. The Guru, my friend, has made me take heart.
I have conquered the whole world and now sleep in peace and ease.
Pauri.
Magnificent is Thy court, O Lord and true is Thine Throne.
Thou art the Emperor over the head of the kings and ever-stable is Thine throne and crown.
Whatever pleases the Supreme Lord, that alone is the true justice.
If the Transcendent Lord so wills, then the placeless person gets a place.
What-so-ever the Creator does, That alone is the good thing.
They, who realise their Lord, are seated in the Lord's court.
True is Thine command, O Lord, which no one can challenge.
O Merciful Master, the cause of causes, all are subject to Thine omnipotence.
Slok 5th Guru.
Hearing of Thy celebrity my soul and body are reverdured, O Lord and uttering Thy name, I am rendered with bliss.
Walking in Thine way, O Lord, my mind is cooled and seeing the Guru's sight, I am enraptured.
5th Guru.
Within my mind, I have found the gem.
The True Guru has given it to me. he has charged no price for it.
My search is ended and I have become stable.
I have made fruitful or conquered my invaluable human life, O Nanak.
Pauri.
He alone, on whose forehead good destiny is writ, takes to the Lord's service.
He, whose heart-lotus has bloomed, by meeting the Guru, remains awake night and day.
He who bears love to the Lord's lotus feet All his doubt and dread flee away.
He, who conquers his-self, by Guru's instruction attains to the imperishable Lord.
He, who contemplates his Lofty Lord; he alone prospers in this Darkage.
He who becomes immaculate in the society of the saints, is deemed to have bathed at the sixty-eight places of pilgrimage.
He whom His Lord meets; He alone is a man of good fortune.
Nanak, is a sacrifice unto him, so great is whose fortune.
5th Guru.
When God, the spouse, is within man. then the mammon, His bride, forsakes him.
But, when the Spouse is not within him, then the mammon reigns supreme.
Without the Name, one greatly wanders.
The True Guru has manifestly shown me the Lord with me.
Servant Nanak is merged in the Truest of the True.
5th Guru.
Man goes about making all efforts, but he makes not one effort to meet the Lord.
Nanak, rare is the person, who realises the effort, by which the world is saved.
Pauri.
The highest of the high and unrivalled is Thy dignity, O Lord.
Various are Thine colours and super-colours. Thine wondrous deeds, one can realise not.
Thou alone art the inner life of the living beings and knowest everything.
Everything is under Thy sway and beauteous is Thy mansion.
In Thy home there is bliss and it is Thy home wherein congratulations ever pour in.
Thine celebrity, magnificence and glory behoove Thee alone.
Thou art brimful with all the potencies and art seen everywhere.
Nanak, the slave of Thy salves, O Lord, makes supplication before Thee.
Slok 5th Guru.
Within Thine roofed streets, O Lord, beauteous look the traders.
Nanak, he alone is the banker, who buys the one invaluable commodity of God's Name.
5th Guru.
Kabir, no one is mine, nor belong I to anyone.
He, who has created this universe; in Him am I absorbed.
Pauri.
God is the beauteous fruit-bearing plant, with the ambrosial Name fruits.
My soul longs to meet with Him, the Lord How can He be attained to?
The Lord is without colour and mark, he is Unapproachable and Unconquerable.
Heartily do I love him, who open the Lord's door unto me.
Tell me thou of my Friend, I shall ever perform thy service.
I am a sacrifice and devoted unto my Lord and am wholly dedicated unto Him.
The loved saints utter: Hear ye with your heart.
He, in whose destiny it is so writ. O slave Nanak; him the True Guru blesses with the ambrosial Name.
Slok 5th Guru.
Kabir, the earth belongs to the saints, but the thieves come and sit amidst them.
The earth feels not their weight and to the thieves it is all a profit.
5th Guru.
Kabir, for the sake of rice, the husk too is beaten with a mallet.
When man sits in the company of the evil ones, then the Righteous Judge calls him to account.
Pauri.
Himself the Lord has large family and Himself is all alone.
His worth He knows all by Himself.
Himself, all by Himself, He has created everything.
His creation, He Himself alone, can describe.
Blessed is that place of Thine, my Master, where Thou abidest.
Blessed are the saints of Thine, who see Thee, O my True Lord.
He alone praises Thee, O God, on whom is Thy grace.
Filthless and immaculate is he, O Nanak, whom the Guru meets.
Slok 5th Guru.
O Farid, beauteous is this world. Within it is a thorny garden.
The persons, who are blessed by the Guru; they suffer not even a scratch.
5th Guru.
Farid, graceful is the age together with the beautifully coloured body.
A few are found to be such persons, who bear love to their Beloved.
Pauri.
He alone obtains meditation, hard service, self-control, compassion and faith, whom the Lord gives.
He, whose fire the Lord Himself quenches, contemplates the Name.
My Inaccessible Lord, the Inner-knower, makes man see with an empartial eye.
With the support of the society of saints, one embraces affection for the Lord.
Effacing demerits, man's countenance becomes bright and through God's Name he ferries across the world-ocean.
His fear of birth and death is removed and he enters not existence again.
Making him cling to His skirt, the Lord pulls him out of the blind well.
The Lord forgives and unites him with Himself and keeps him hugged to His bosom.
Slok 5th Guru.
He, who loves the Lord, is imbued with the deep red dye.
Such a person is rarely found, one cannot ever appraise the worth of that man.
5th Guru.
The True Name has pierced my within. Without, too, I see the True Lord.
Nanak, the Lord is contained in all the places, forestas, vegetation, three worlds an d every hair.
Pauri.
Himself the Lord has created the creartion and Himself is imbued with it.
Himself to Lord becomes one and Himself of many varieties.
He Himself is within all and He Himself without them.
God Himself makes man know Him far and Himself just present.
Thou Thyself, O Lord, becomest unmanifest and Thyself manifest.
None can evaluate the worth of Thy creation, O my Master.
Thou, O Lord, art Deep, Profound Unfathomable, Infinite and Incomputable.
Nanak; the one Lord is pervading all, Thou, O my Lord, art but One.
Var of Ramkali. Uttered by Rai Balwand and Satta, the drummer.
There is but One God, By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
How can the words of him, who utters the Name of the omnipotent Creator be weighed?
The angelic virtues are the true sisters and brothers Through them the gift of salvation is obtained.
Nanak established the Lord's empire and laid a very strong foundation of the fortress of truth.
Nanak placed the Royal crown, over Angad's head and hymning Lord's praise, he quaffed Nectar.
Guru Nanak placed the soul illuminating, supremely powerful sword of his instruction in Lahna's mind.
During his very life-time Guru Nanak made obeisance unto Angad, his disciple.
Guru Nanak, the King, whilst alive gave the apostolic mark to Angad.
As the reward of his service, Nanak got announced the proclamation of Lahna's accession.
The same is the Divine light and same the life department. The king (Nanak)has again merely changed his body.
The beauteous Divine umbrella waves over him(Angad) and he has occupied Guru Nanak's shop and sits on his throne.
He does that what Guru Nanak ordered him and tastes the insipid stone, leading to the union with the Lord.
The kitchen of the Guru's Divine word is opened and there occurs no deficiency in his earnings.
He expends the Lord's gift himself, eats and copiously distributes the alms.
The Lord's praises are sung and Divine light descends from firmament and heavenly bodies.
Beholding thee, O True King, the filth of births over births is washed off.
The Guru uttered the truth regarding his successor. Why should we then desist from proclaiming this?
The Guru's sons obeyed not his word and turned their back upon the proclaimed Guru.
The evil-hearted sons turned rebels and making a sack-Load of sins, carry it on their head.
Whatever the Guru said, Lahna did the very same, was installed obeyed the order, was installed on the Guru's throne.
Lo, who has lost and who has won?
He, who rendered service, is worshipped as the Guru. Which one is bitter, thistle or rice?
Weighing the merits of both the sides, the Guru, like the God, Righteous Judge, gave the reasonable decision.
Whatever the True Guru says, the True Lord does. That thing instantaneously comes to pass.
The sovereignty of Guru Angad was proclaimed and the True Creator confirmed it.
Changing his body, Nanak has occupied and sat on the throne, which has hundred of scions,
Standing at his door, his followers serve him, Thus is the rust of their sins scrubbed off.
The Guru is the saint of the Lord's door and loves the True Name and the Guru's word.
Says Balwand, Guru Angad's consort, Khivi, is a good wife, who gives dense leafy shade of solace to all.
She distributes the Guru's wealth in his kitchen, Nectar-sweet rice-pudding mixed with clarified butter.
Bright are the faces of the Guru's Sikhs and those of the perverse grow pale like straw.
When Angad rendered manly service, then did his Master approve of him.
Such is mother Khivi's spouse, who sustains the whole world.
Guru Nanak made the Ganges flow in another direction and people say, "What has he done?"
God incarnate Nanak, the Lord of the world, has uttered the supremely sublime hymns.
Making a mountain has churning staff and the Snake-King his churning-string, he has churned the Divine word.
He has extracted the fourteen invaluable objects and has illumined the whole universe.
He displayed such power when he assayed so great a person as Angad.
He waved the royal umbrella over the head of Lahna and extended the canopy of his glory to the sky.
Nanak's light merged in Guru Angad's light and the Guru Him self blended Angad with Himself.
Nanak tested his sikhs and his sons and all his sect saw what he had done.
When Lahna was found immaculate, then alone the Guru established him on the throne.
Then, the True Guru, the son of Pheru, came to abide in the village of Khadoor.
Meditation, hard service and self-discipline abide with thee, O my Guru and excessive pride abides with others.
Avarice spoils the mortals, as the green moss does the water.
The Lord's Light spontaneously rains at the Guru's court.
O my Guru, thou art that peace, of which depth can be found not.
thou art brimful with the nine treasure of the Name-wealth.
He, who slanders thee, is utterly ruined.
The people of this world are short-sighted, but thou see afar.
Then the True Guru, the son of Pheru, came to abide in the village of Khadoor.
Guru Amardas obtained the same apostolic mark, the same throne and the same court.
The grandson (Guru Amardas) is as acceptable as his father (Guru Angad) & grand father (Guru Nanak).
It is Guru Amardas, who through the force of Divine love, made the thousand-mouthed serpent his churning-Staff,
and who, making the Sumer mountain his churning-staff, churned the ocean of the world.
He brought forth the fourteen gems and diffused and Divine Light all-round.
The divine knowledge he made his steed and chastity he made his caparison.
On the bow of truth, he mounted the arrow of the Lord's praise.
In the Darkage, there was pitch darkness. The Guru arose like the night-illuminating Sun.
He has grown the field of truth, and has stretched and canopy of truth.
Ever in thy kitchen are clarified butter and refined wheat flour to eat.
Thou, O Amardas, Knowest the four quarters of the world and unto thy mind the Name is agreeable.
Thou obviously removest the coming and going of him, on whom thou casteth thy fovourable glance.
He, the wise Lord, descended in the form of Guru Amardas.
Thou art firm like the Sumer mountain and art swayed not by storm and gusts of wind.
Thou, O Searcher of hearts, knowest the state of all mind.
How can I praise thee, O True King, when thou art Wise and Omniscient.
The bounties which thou, O True Guru, likest to grant; bless thou Satta with those gifts.
Seeing Nanak's umbrella, wavering over thy head, the entire sect is astonished.
Guru Amardas has the Same mark, the same throne and the same court.
The grandson is as acceptable as his father and grandfather (Guru Nanak.).
Blessed, blessed is Guru Ramdas. The Lord, who created thee; He alone has embellished thee.
Complete is thy miracle. The Creator Himself has installed thee on the throne.
Deeming thee as the Transcendent Lord, thine followers and congregation bow before thee.
Thou art Unshakable, Unfathomable and Unweighable. Thou hast no end or bounds.
They, who serve thee with love Then thou ferrieest across.
Thou hast beaten and driven out avarice, covetousness, sexual desire, wrath and worldly love with all their ramifications.
Praiseworthy is Thy place and true are thine bounties.
Thou art Nanak, thou art Angad and thou art Guru Amardas. So do I deem thee.
When I saw the Guru, then was my soul sustained.
The four Gurus illumined their own four times. Thou, O Nanak, thyself hast assumed the fifth form.
Thou Thyself didst create the world and thyself art its ever standing pillar.
Thou thyself art the tablet, thyself the pen and thyself hast become the writer.
Thine followers are all subject to coming and going. Thou art ever safe and sound.
Guru Arjan is seated on Guru Nanak's throne and the True Guru's canopy shines over him.
From east to west, thou hast illumined the four directions.
The apostates, who serve not their Guru, die an ignoble death.
This is the True Guru's true blessing on thee that thine miracles increase two-fold and four-fold.
The four Guru's illumined their own four times, Thou, O Nanak, thyself has assumed the filth form.
Ramkali hymns of the saints. Sire Kabir.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Make thou thy body the vat end, the Guru's instruction thy molasses,
cutting up desire, lust, wrath, pride and envy, use thou them as thy bark of Acacia arabica, Thus mix thou thy yeast.
Is there any such saint, in whose mind poise and peace abide, to whom I may offer my devotion for giving me such a wine?
I shall surrender my soul and body to him, who gives me as much as a drop me as much as a drop of wine from such a vat. Pause.
The fourteen worlds, I have made my furnace. The realisation of the Lord within my body is fire that I have burnt in the furnace.
To enshrine love for the Lord is my sealing the pitcher to drive the wine into the pot and mental peace is my cooling-pad.
Pilgrimage, fasting, vow purification, self-discipline and austerities at eclipses of the sun and the moon, I would pledge for that wine.
Meditation make I the cup and God's ambrosial Name the pure juice, This supreme quintessence do quaff I.
From such a still, a very pure stream continually issues and with this elixir my soul is inebriated.
Says Kabir, all other wines are trifling. This alone is the True great elixir.
Make gnosis thy molasses, make meditation thy bassia flowers and let Lord's fear enshrined in thy mind, be thy furnace.
The wind pipe, Sukhmana by Name, is merged in equipoise and soul, the drinker, quaffs this wine.
O Yogi, with this wine my soul is intoxicated.
When that wine ascends to the brain, man tastes not the relish of another one and then he sees the three worlds clearly. Pause.
Joining the two regions of God and soul, I have made the furnace and drink I the very supreme elixir.
Both lust and wrath I have burnt as fire-wood and have thus escaped from worldliness.
The light of gnosis was manifested unto me. When Meeting my great True Guru, I obtained understanding from him.
Slave Kabir is inebriated with that wine, intoxication of which wears off not ever.
Thou art my Sumer mountain, O Lord. I have grasped Thy protection.
Thou shakest not, nor do I fall. Thou, O Lord, hast preserved my honour.
Now and then and here and hereafter, there is but Thee.
By Thine grace, O my Master, I am ever in peace. Pause.
Relying on Thee, I abide in Maghar and Thou hast quenched the fire of my mind.
First I obtained Thy vision in Maghar and afterwards came to live in Banaras.
As is Maghar, so is Kanshi, deem them both the same.
I, the poor man, have obtained this wealth of the Lord, whilst the proud persons are bursting to death.
He who prides on himself; him prick the thorns and there is none to draw them out.
Here he cries bitterly of prickly-pain and afterwards burns in the frightful hell.
What is hell and what heaven, the poor things. The saints reject both of them.
Through the grace of my Guru, I own not any obligation to either.
Now, I have mounted to the Master's Sustainer.
The Pervading God and Kabir have become one and no one can distinguish between them.
I honour the saints and punish the wicked. This is my duty as the Lord's police officer
Day and night I shampoo Thine feet, O Lord, and wave my hair as fly-brush over Thee.
My Master; I am the dog of Thine court.
Opening my snout I bark before It. Pause.
In the former birth, I was Thy slave. I can give up Thee not now.
The celestial strain resounds at Thy door and on my forehead is inscribed Thine seal.
They who are branded, fight bravely in battle and the unstamped ones flee away.
he, who is a saint, knows the worth of the Lord's devotional service and the Lord puts him in His treasury.
In the body-house is the chamber of the mind, which becomes the excellent chamber through the Lord's meditation.
The Guru has blessed Kabir with the Name commodity, saying: "Have thou the Name commodity and guard it".
Kabir gives it to the world, but he alone receives it, on whose forehead good fortune is recorded.
Ever-stable is the married life of her, who is blessed with this immortalising Nectar.
He, from whose mouth the Vedas and Gaytri have issued; why forgettest thou Him, O Brahman?
He, to whose feet the whole world repairs; why utterest thou not the Name of that God, O Pandit?
O my Brahman, why repeatest thou not the Lord's Name?
If thou utterest not the Master's Name, then thou shalt suffer great agony. Pause.
Thou callest thyself high, but thou takest food in the houses of the low. Practising obstinate deeds, thou fillest thy belly.
On the fourteenth and no-moon day, thou embellishingly beggest and taking a lamp in thy hand, thou fallest into the well.
Thou art a Brahman and I a weaver of Banaras. How and in what way can I beat par with thee?
Uttering the Lord's Name, I am saved and thou, O Pandit, by relying on the Vedas shalt be drowned to death.
There is one tree. It has numberless branches and shoots. Its flowers and leaves are filled with Nectar.
This world is the garden of ambrosia. He, the Perfect Lord, has created it.
O my love, I have known the story of the sovereign Lord.
Some rare one, within whose mind the Lord's Light shines, knows it through the Guru's grace. Pause
One bumble-bee, pierced with the Nectar of the flower of twelve petals, fixes its mind in it.
He then mounts his breath to the sixteen-petalled sky and there flutters his wings in glee.
In the profound trance one tree of God becomes manifest and it dries up the water of desire from the body-ground.
Says Kabir; I am the slave of those who have seen this tree.
Make silence thine ear-rings and mercy thy wallet. The Lord's meditation, make thou thy bowl, O Yogi.
Stitch this body of thine for thy patched coat and make thou the Lord's Name thy support.
O Yogi, practise thou such a 'Yogi'.
By Guru's grace, thus shalt thou enjoy God's meditation, hard service and self-control. Pause.
Besmear thou thy body with the ashes of wisdom and make the fixing of thy mind on God thy horn,
Becoming desireless roam thou in the city of thy body and play on the lyre of thy mind.
Plant thou the virtues of the five elements in thy mind, that thy trance may remain undisturbed.
Says Kabir, "Hear, O ye saints, make righteousness and compassion you garden".
For what worth wert thou created in the world and what profit hast thou reaped form this life?
Thou hast not applied this mind of thine, even for a moment to God, who is the ship to cross the terrible world-ocean and the fulfiller of mind's desires.
O God, the Lord of the Universe, such sinner am I.
The Lord, who has blessed me with the soul and body; His loving adoration I have performed not. Pause.
Other's wealth, other's body, other's wife, other's slander and wranglings, I can forsake not,
Through this, coming and going occurs again and again and this story ends not.
The house, where the saints discourse on God; that house, I visit not even for a moment.
Libertines, thieves, panders and drunkards; with them ever abide I.
Lust, wrath, desire of wealth, ego and envy, This riches is within me.
Compassion, piety and Guru's service; these visit me not even in dream.
The Merciful Master, with string round His belly, is kind to the meek, dear to the saints and the meek, dear to the saints and the Destroyer of dread.
Says Kabir, preserve Thou Thy slave from disaster, O Lord, and I shall perform Thy service.
Remembering whom thou shalt obtain the gate of emancipation,
go to the True Abode and return not to this world,
play the trumpets in the house of the Fearless Lord,
and the unstruck strain shall ever fully resound for thee.
Embrace thou such meditation within thy mind,
Without the Lord's contemplation, salvation can never be attained to. Pause.
Remembering whom, thou shalt meet with no obstacle.
God shall emancipate thee and thy great load of sin shall drop off.
Make thou obeisance unto God within thy mind,
and thou shalt not come over and over again.
Contemplating whom thou shalt make merry.
Within thee, the Lord has firmly placed the, lamp, burning without oil.
That lamp renders the world immortal,
and drives out the poison of carnal appetite and anger.
Contemplating whom thou art emancipate;
that contemplation twine thou and wear on thy neck.
Embrace thou that Lord's meditation and abandon it not ever.
By Guru's grace, thou shalt be ferried across.
Contemplating whom thou shalt not be subservient to another.
Thou shalt sleep in thy home spreading silken cloth.
Thy heart shall be gladdened by the comfortable bed,
so, night and day quaff thou the contemplation of such Lord.
By remembering whom thy calamity shall depart.
By remembering, mammon shall affect thee not.
Contemplate and remember thou thy Lord God in thy mind and hymn His praise.
This contemplation of the Lord is obtained from the True Guru.
Ever, ever, day and night,
standing, sitting, at every breath and morsel,
whilst waking and sleeping, enjoy thou the Nectar of the Lord's meditation.
It is by good destiny that God's meditation is obtained.
Remembering whom, thou shalt be loaded not with sins.
Make thou the contemplation of the Lord's Name thy support.
Says Kabir, who has no limit,
no charm and spell can prevail with Him.
Ramkali. Hymns of Sire. Kabir.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
Mammon, the captor, has captivated the mortals.
The emancipated Guru has quenched my fire.
When I understood this mind of mine from the nail of the foot to the crown of head,
then I bathed within myself.
My mind, the Lord of breath, now really abides in the state of supreme bliss.
There is neither death, nor birth, nor again for me now. Pause.
Turning away from mammon I have found the Lord's support,
and have entered into the sky of the Tenth gate.
The snake-like coil, is now pierced through,
and I have dauntlessly met my God, the king
The attachment of mammon is effaced,
and the moon has devoured the sun.
Merged in the Full-pervading Lord, when I locked the breath within,
then the celestial strain spontaneously began to resound.
Guru, the utterer, has uttered and preached the Lord's Name.
Sikh, the hearer, has heard and enshrined it within his mind.
Man of action crosses the world-ocean.
Says Kabir, this alone is the 'Real-Thing '.
The moon and the sun both are the embodiment of light.
In their light the unrivalled Lord is contained.
O wise man, contemplate on thy Lord.
In the Luminous Lord contained the creation. Pause.
Beholding Lord, the Jewel. I make obeisance unto my jewel.
Says Kabir, my Immaculate Lord is beyond reckoning.
O man of the world, be thou vigilant and wakeful, Even when awake, thou art being robbed, O brother.
While the Vedas, that are alert sentinels, look on, death's courier shall take thee away. Pause.
Man thinks that Azadirachta indica is a mango and a mango is an Azadirachta indica and that ripe bananas are on the thorny bush.
He deems that the ripe coconut fruit is on the Bombax heptaphylum tree, Such a stupid silly idiot is he.
God is like sugar, spilled in the sand. It cannot be picked up by an elephant,
Says Kabir; renounce thy lineage, caste and false honour and be an aunt to pick up and eat the sugar.
Hymns of Sire Namdev. Ramkali.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
A boy gets paper, cuts it into a kite and flies it in the sky.
While talking with his mates, he keeps his mind in the string.
Pierced with the Lord's Name, my mind is so stuck in it,
as is of the goldsmith, in his gold craft. Pause.
The young girl in the city brings pitcher and fills it with water.
She laughs, makes merry and converses, but keeps her mind fixed in the pitcher.
The cow is let loose to graze, out of the mansion, which has ten gates.
The cow grazes five miles away, but keeps her attention fixed on her calf.
Says Namdev, listen, O Tirlochan, the child is laid in the cradle.
Within and without engaged in work she (Mother), keeps her thought in her child.
There are countless Vedas, Puranas and Shastras, I sing not their songs and poetry,
In the imperishable region of the Formless Lord, I shall play the celestial strain.
Becoming desire-free, I sing the Lord's praise.
Imbued with the love of the detached and indestructible Lord, I shall go to the mansion of the Unlineal one. Pause.
I have abandoned to hold my breath in the left, right and central wind pipes.
I deem both the moon and the sun the same and shall merge in the Light of the Omnipresent Lord.
I go not to see places of pilgrimage, nor enter into their water, nor annoy I the mortals and lower animals.
The Guru has shown me the sixty eight shrines within my mind, wherein I bathe now.
I listen not praise of the flattering persons nor care I to be flattering persons nor care I to be called good and holy.
Says Namdev, my mind is imbued with God and now I shall be absorbed in His seedless trance.
When there was no mother, no father, no deed and no human body;
When we were not and you were not, who was there then and whence did he, come?
My Lord, here one belongs to no one.
We are here like the perching of a bird on a tree. Pause.
When there was neither the moon nor the sun, then the water and air were merged in the Lord.
When there were no Shastras and no Vedas, whence did good and bad actions come then?
Breath-control, fixation of attention and wearing of the rosary of sweet basil; these I have found contained in the Guru's grace.
Supplicates Namdev, the Lord is the Supreme Reality. If one meets with the True Guru, It is then that one realises Him.
Ramkali.
If man practises penance at Kanshi, or dies inverted at a shrine, or burns himself in fire or makes his body long-lived.
If he performs the horse sacrificial feast, or give concealed alms of gold; even then all these equal not the Lord's Name.
O hypocritical man, renounce and forsake deception and practise it not.
Ever, ever utter thou the Name of the Lord. Pause.
If one goes to the Ganges and Godawari every twelfth year, or bathes at Kedar Nath, or makes alms of thousands of cows at Gomti.
If he performs millions of pilgrimages of holies or freezes his body in the Himalayas; Even then all these equal not the Lord's Name.
I f man makes gifts of horses, gifts of elephants, Gifts of women with their couches and lands, and Makes such gifts of women with their couches and lands, and makes such gifts ever and ever.
If he purifies himself and gives alms of gold equal to his body's weight; even then all these equal not the Lord's Name.
Entertain thou not anger in thy mind and attribute not blame to the Death's courier, but recognise thou the immaculate dignity of salvation.
Prays Namdev, My Sovereign Lord is Ram Chander, the son of king Dasrath and I quaff the quintessence of the immortalising elixir.
Ramkali. Hymns of Sire Ravidas.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
The mortals read, hear and reflect upon the innumerable Names of the Lord. but they can see not the Embodiment of gnosis and love.
How can iron become invaluable gold, if it touches not the philosopher's stone?
O Lord, the knot of doubt unravels not.
Lust, wrath, worldly valuables egotism and jealously; these five combined are plundering the whole world. Pause.
I am a great poet and of high family. I am a scholar and I am a Yogi and a solitarian.
I am a virtuous divine, a warrior and a donor; such thinking perishes not ever.
Says Ravidas, all the men understand not God and go astray like mad men.
The Lord's Name is my support, my life, soul and wealth.
Ramkali. Hymns of Reverend Beni.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The left wind-pipe, the right wind-pipe and the central one; These three abide in one place.
Priyag is there, where the three streams the Ganges, Jamna and Saraswati, meet. My mind bathes at that place.
O saints, the Immaculate Lord abides there.
Going to the Guru, some rare one understands this.
The Immaculate Omnipresent Lord is seen in that place. Pause.
What is the sign of the Lord's abode?
There is played the unbeaten music of the Name.
There is no moon, no sun, neither air nor water at that place.
It is by the Guru's grace, that the Lord's discourse becomes manifest and is understood.
Then gnosis wells up within the mortal and his evil intellect departs,
the core of his mind's sky is drenched with the immortalising ambrosia.
One who realises the secret of this contrivance,
he meets the supreme Guru-God.
The tenth gate is the abode of the Inaccessible and Infinite supreme Lord.
Over the shop and above the shop is a niche in the wall and in the niche is the commodity.
He who remains awake, goes not to sleep ever.
The three qualities and the three worlds vanish for him in his trance.
Taking the seed of the Lord's Name, he enshrines it within his mind.
Turning back his mind from the world, he fixes it in the Profound Lord.
He remains wakeful and utters not a lie.
His five sense-organs, he keeps under his control.
The Guru's instruction he treasures up in his mind.
His soul and body, he offers to his Lord's love.
The mortal deems his hands as the leaves and branches of the body tree.
He loses not his life in gambling.
He plugs the source of the stream of evil inclinations.
Turning away from the spiritual darkness of the west, he makes rise the sun of Divine knowledge.
When he bears the unbearable, then does the Nectar trickle forth within him,
and he converses with the Lord of the world.
In the Tenth gate is the light of the four-faced lamp.
The Primal Lord is in the centre and endless worlds (leaves) are around Him.
With all His powers the Lord Himself abides there.
There he weaves into his pearl-like mind, the jewels of the Lord's Name.
On the forehead is the lotus and round it are the jewel.
In the centre is the Pure Lord, the Master of the three worlds.
The melody of the five pure sounds resounds there.
The fly-brushes wave and the couches thunder like cloud.
Through the Guru-given gnosis, man tramples under his feet the demons.
Beni craves only for Thy Name, O Lord.
Ram Nat Narain. 4th Guru.
There is but One God. True is His Name, creative His personality and immortal His form, He is without fear, sans enmity, unborn and self-illumined. By Guru's grace, he is obtained.
O my soul day and night utter thou the Name of thy God.
Multitudes of sins, committed by thee in myriads and myriads of births; the Lord shall all write off and lay aside. Pause.
True are they, who remember and contemplate the Name of their Lord-Master with His slave's sentiment.
All their sins and evils are dispelled, as water washes off the filth.
The man, who every moment sings the praise of God and who with his mouth utters the Name of the mighty Master, the man-lion.
In an instant and trice, the Lord rids him of the incurable five ailments of his body-village.
Very fortunate are they, who contemplate the Lord's Name, They alone are the Lord-God's saints.
I ask for the society of such saints. My Master, bless Thou me with it, so that, I, a fool and an idiot, may also be saved.
O God, the Life of the world, I have sought Thy protection. Showing Thine mercy and compassion, save Thou me, now.
Slave Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary. O Lord Master, preserve Thou, now, his honour.
Nat 4th Guru.
Dwelling on the Lord Master, His serfs merge in His Name.
He, who by Guru's instruction utters the Master's Name; unto him, the Lord God showers His benediction. Pause.
Unapproachable and Unapprehensible is the Lord God, our Master. Meditating on Him, His slave merges in Him, like water with water.
Meeting with the God's saints, I have obtained the Lord's elixir. Unto His slave, I am ever a sacrifice.
The Lord's slave sings the praise of the Name of the sublime Person and his poverty and pain are all destroyed.
Within the body are the five evil and uncontrollable passions. Them the Lord instantaneously destroys.
The Lord's saint so heartily loves His God, as the lotus flower blooms by seeing the moon.
Hearing the thunder of the descending clouds, the peacock and the peacock's young ones are heartily elated.
My Master has put his yearning within me and I live by seeing and meeting my God.
The Lord Master has addicted slave Nanak to His intoxication and meeting his God, he obtains sublime bliss.
Nat 4th Guru.
O my soul, utter thou the Name of the Lord God, thy Friend.
By Guru's grace, I ponder over God's Name and shampoo the True Guru's Feet. Pause.
The sublime Lord of the world and the Master of Universe, keeps me, the sinner, in His refuge.
Thou, O Great Lord-God, the Destroyer of the Sorrow of the meek, hast blessed me with Thy sublime Name.
Meeting with the Great True Guru, my friend, I, the mental, have hymned the lofty qualities of God.
Like the Azadirachta tree, abiding with the sandal tree, O Lord, the Sandal, I have acquired Thine qualities.
My demerits are of mortal sins, which, every moment, commit I over and over again.
Me, the sinner and a heavy stone, The Lord has ferried across in the society of saints.
All the sins of those, whom Thou savest, O Lord, are destroyed.
O Merciful Lord Master of slave Nanak, Thou hast ferried across the villains, like Harnakhash.
Nat 4th Guru.
O my soul, meditate thou on thy God, the Lord master, with love.
He, to whom Lord God, the Master of Universe, shows mercy, repairs to the saints feet and dwells upon God. Pause.
Sinning and straying for many births, I have now come and entered the Lord's sanctuary.
Thou art the Cherisher of those, O Lord, who seek Thy refuge. Save Thou me, a great sinner.
Who and which is it, who is saved not through Thine association, O my Master. It is only the Lord, who sanctifies the sinners.
Namdev, the calico printer, was driven out by the villains, while he was hymning Thy praise, O Lord and Thou didst preserve the honour of Thy slave.
They, who sing Thine excellences, O Lord; unto them I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice, a sacrifice.
The houses and homes are all sanctified, on which alights the dust of Thy slave's feet.
Thine merits I can narrate not, O Master. Great, the Greatest of the great Lord. Thou art.
Be Thou merciful unto slave Nanak, O Lord I serve the feet of Thine attendants.
Nat 4th Guru.
O my soul, believe in and meditate on, Thy Lord Master's Name.
The Master of Universe has shown mercy unto me and through the Guru's instruction, my mind has been embellished with the Lord's Name. Pause.
Hearing the Great Guru's instruction, God's slave hymns the praise of God, the Lord Master.
As the farmer reaps his farm, so does the Lord's name mow down misdeeds and sins.
They praise, Thou alone knowest, O Lord, I can narrate not Thine merits, my God.
My Master, as Thou art, so art Thou alone. Thou alone knowest Thine excellences, O Lord.
The mortals are bound in the many bonds of mammon's noose. Contemplating the Lord, their bonds are loosened,
as when caught by the crocodile in water, the elephant was released, uttering the Lord's Name with his mouth.
O my God, the Transcendent Lord-Master, the mortals search Thee all the ages through.
O the Great Lord of serf Nanak, Thy depth can be ascertained not by ascertaining.
Nat 4th Guru.
O my soul, singing of God's praise alone is approved in this Darkage.
He to whom Merciful Master, the Lord God, blesses with His grace, repairs to the Guru's feet and meditates on his Lord. Pause.
O Lord Master, Thou art Great, Inaccessible and Incomprehensible. All meditate on Thee, O my Beauteous Lord.
They, whom Thou see with Thy eye of great grace, remember Thee, through the Guru, O Lord.
This world is the creation of the Lord Master. He is the life of The Universe and is united with all.
As the millions of water-waves well up from the water and finally the water-waves blend with and merge in the water, so is the Lord's creation.
My Lord, Thou alone knowest what Thou doest. I can comprehend (grasp) not Thine plays.
I am Thy child, O Lord, Enshrine Thou Thy praise within my mind that I may meditate on Thee.
Thou, O Lord, art the Treasure of water, the Mansrowar lake. They who serve Thee gather the Fruit.
Serf Nanak yearns for the Lord, Lord, Lord's Name, O God, by Thine mercy, bless Thou him with it.
Nat Narain. 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my soul, render thou service unto thy God, that thou mayest obtain the Fruit.
Obtain thou the earth and dust of the Guru's feet.
This wise all thy poverty shall depart and pain disappear.
Then shalt thou be verily elated, through God's grace. Pause.
God's Home, God Himself embellishes. It is the gay mansion to enjoy Divine bliss and is set with numberless jewels, the jewels of the Beloved Lord.
Showering His benediction, God Himself has walked into my home. The Guru has advocated my cause before the Lord, it is on beholding my Master, that I have become joyful, joyful, joyful, joyful.
It is from the Guru, that I received the news of my Lord's arrival. Hearing of the arrival of God, my Beloved God, my Beloved, my mind and body were overjoyed.
Meeting with the Lord-God, serf Nanak is transmuted and is immensely pleased.
Nat 4th Guru.
Meeting with the society of saints, O my soul become thou illustrious.
Hear thou the peace-bestowing discourse, of the Ineffable Lord.
All thy misdeeds and sins shall be washed off.
Be, be, be thou dedicated unto thy God, in accordance with the preordained writ for thee. Pause.
Sublime is the Lord's praise in this Darkage. Acquiring understanding through the Guru's instruction dwell thou upon thy Lord's gospel.
The person who hears God's praise and the person who believes in it; unto that person, I am a sacrifice.
He, who tastes the elixir of the unutterable discourse of God; that man's hunger is all satisfied.
Slave Nanak is satiated by hearing God's gospel and uttering God's Name, has himself become God-like.
Nat 4th Guru.
Let some one come and relate to me the Lord's Divine word.
Unto him I am a sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice.
That man of God is the sublime of the sublime.
Meeting with God, be, be, be, thou happy, O man. Pause.
God's way, the saint Guru has pointed out to me The Guru has shown to me the manner, the Divine manner to walk thereon.
Renounce ye your mind's deceit and undeceitfully perform your Lord-God's service, O my Gursikhs. This wise you shall be happy, gay and glad for aye.
The sikhs of the Guru, who realise my God-Lord to be with them, are pleasing to my God.
The Lord has blessed serf Nanak with understanding. Seeing his God nigh and near, he is now rendered happy, jovial, gay and glad.
Rag Nat Narain. 5th Guru.
There is but One God, By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
My Lord, how can I know what pleases Thee?
Within my mind is the great thirst to see Thy vision. Pause.
He alone is the divine and he alone Thy slave, on whom is Thine pleasure, O Lord.
he, to whom Thou showest mercy, O Creator Lord; for ever and aye, meditates he on Thee.
What kind of Yog, what gnosis and contemplation and what virtues please Thee, O my Master?
He alone is Thy slave and he alone Thy own saint, whom Thou bearest love, O God.
That alone is intelligence and that the intellect and wisdom, which makes man not forget his Lord, even for an instant.
Meeting the society of saints, I am blessed with this happiness, that I ever sing the Lord's praise.
I have seen the wondrous Lord, the Embodiment of supreme bliss. Aught else, I see not, now.
Says Nanak, the Guru has scrubbed off the rust of my sins. How can then I now enter the womb existences.
Nat Narain. 5th Guru Dupadas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I accuse not any one.
All that Thou does, O Lord, is sweet unto my mind. Pause.
Understanding and obeying Thy order, O Lord, I obtain peace and I live by continually hearing Thy Name.
The Guru has implanted this instruction unto me, that here and hereafter, O Lord, it is Thou, Thou alone who art.
From the time, I have realised this thing; since then I am blessed with all peace and pleasure.
In the society of saints, the Lord has become manifest unto Nanak and now he sees not any other.
Nat 5th Guru.
He, who has Thine support, O Lord.
His fear of Death is removed he obtains peace and his pain of pride departs. Pause.
The Guru's Nectareous 'Bani' quenches his inner fire and satiates him, as the milk does the child.
The saints are my mother, father and friend and the saints my succourer and brother.
The doors of doubt are flung open, God's jewel has pierced my mind's jewel and I have met my Lord the world Cherisher.
My Master is the ocean of virtues. Singing His praise, Nanak is wondrously pleased.
Nat 5th Guru.
The Lord of Himself emancipates His serf.
Through the eight watches of the day, the Lord abides with His slave and from His mind He forsakes him not. Pause.
He minds not his colour and form, nor thinks he of the lineage of His attendant.
Extending His mercy, God blesses him with His name and embellishes him instructively.
Exceedingly arduous is the ocean of fire and the Lord ferries him across that.
Seeing and perceiving Him, Nanak ever remains in bloom and is again and again a sacrifice into Him.
Nat 5th Guru.
He who utters the God's Name, within his mind,
his millions of sins are erased, in a moment and his ailments are eradicated. Pause.
Seeking and searching God, I have become desire-free and am blessed with the society of the saints.
Forsaking all, I am now attuned to One God and grasp ever the Lord Master's Feet.
Who-so-ever seeks the Lord's protection and utters His Name; is emancipated, The hearers of His Name are saved as well.
Remembering and contemplating his Lord-Master, says Nanak, he is enraptured for eye.
Nat 5th Guru.
To Thine lotus-feet, bear I love, O Lord.
O my Lord, the ocean of peace, emancipate Thou me. Pause.
God has made His slave hold His skirt and his mind is pierced with the intoxication of His love.
Hymning the Lord's praise, the Love for Him wells up in the saints' mind and he breaks off the mammon's snare.
God, the Ocean of mercy, is fully filling all and I see not any other.
The Lord has united His slave Nanak with Himself and his love for the Lord diminishes not, ever.
Nat 5th Guru.
O my soul repeat and utter thou the Name of thy Pervading God.
Within my mind I forget Him not ever and eight watches of the night and day, I sing His praise. Pause.
Every day, I take bath in the dust of the feet of the saints and am thus rid of all the misdeeds and sins.
The Perfect Lord, the ocean of compassion is filling all and is seen contained in every heart.
Millions and lacs of recitations penances and worships, equal not the Lord's meditation.
Joining both his hand s, Nanak begs for of the slaves of Thy slaves, O Lord.
Nat 5th Guru.
The Treasure of the Lord's Name is everything for me.
In His mercy, the Master has met me through the society of the saints. The True Guru has blessed me with such a gift. Pause.
Sing thou the praise of God, the giver of peace and the Destroyer of distress and thou shalt be blest with the perfect gnosis.
Thy lust, wrath and avarice shall be shattered to process and thine stupefying ego shall be dispelled.
What virtues of Thine can I utter and describe? Thou art the Inner-Knower and the Omniscient Lord.
O my Lord, the Ocean of peace, I seek the protection of Thine lotus feet, Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Nat 5th Guru.
O my Guru-God, I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto Thee. Pause.
O Thou, the Compassionate Master of the meek, I am virtueless and Thou art the Beneficent Perfect Lord.
Whilst standing, sitting, sleeping and waking Thou, O Lord, art my soul life, wealth and property.
Within my mind is the great thirst for the Lord's vision. Seeing Him I am supremely enraptured.
Nat Partal. 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Is there any such a friend and an intimate of mine,
who may ever recite to me the Lord's Name;
that I be rid of distress and evil ways?
Unto him, I shall surrender my soul, body, mind and every thing. Pause.
Rare is the One, whom the Lord makes His own,
and whose soul is sewn with His lotus feet.
Extending His mercy the Lord, blesses him with His praise.
Meditating on the Lord, his invaluable life he makes fruitful.
Remembering God, millions of sinners are sanctified.
Servant Nanak is devoted and a sacrifice unto His Lord.
Nat Ashatpadies. 4th Guru.
There is but One God By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
My Master, Thy Name is the support of my soul and body Even for an instant and a moment.
I can life not without the Lord's service. Through the Guru instruction, utter I, His Name. Pause.
God, God, God, God, God, heartily remember I, and dear unto me is the Lord-God's Name.
When the Lord-Master became merciful unto me, the meek one, I got embellished with the Guru's word.
My Master is the Lover of Nectar, the Life of the world, the Lord of wealth, Inaccessible and Infinite.
I pray and supplicate the Guru to bless me with the gift of washing the saints' feet.
The thousands of eyes of the beings, are the eyes of the Lord, yet the Omnipotent Lord remains but all-aloof.
The unique Lord Master has thousands of forms, It is the Lord alone who saves the mortals through the Guru's instruction.
By Guru's instruction, I am blessed with the Lord's Name and it is the Lord-God's Name, that I keep clasped to my heart.
Exceedingly sweet is the Lord Master's gospel. Like a dumb man, I can only quaff it with relish, but can describe not.
The tongue enjoys the extremely insipid relish of another's love avarice and sin.
The Guru-ward tastes the deliciousness of the Lord's Name and forgets all other savours and relishes.
By Guru's instruction, I have obtained the wealth of the Lord's Name, hearing and uttering which my sins are eradicated.
The courier of the Righteous Judge draws not near the beloved slave of my Master.
As many breaths, that I breathe; with so many breaths, utter I the Lord's Name under the Guru's instruction.
Every breath, which escapes without the Name; that breath is useless and sinful.
O Lord-God, I the meek one, have sought Thine refuge, Take Thou pity, on me and unite me with Thy beloved slaves.
Says Nanak, the slave of Thine slaves, O Lord, I am the water carrier of Thy attendants.
Nat 4th Guru.
O my Omnipresent Lord, I am meritless like the stone.
The Merciful Master has mercifully made me meet the Guru and by Guru's teaching, I, the stone, am saved. Pause.
The True Guru has enshrined within me the very sweet Name of the Lord, which is cool and fragrant like the sandal.
Through the Name, I have obtained the knowledge of ten directions and I now realise the Fragrant Lord is perfuming all.
My Master, the Guru's sublime Gurbani, is Thine discourse of detachedness and sweet discourse and I reflect thereon.
Sing, sing and hymn I the Lord's praise. By hymning the Lord's praise, the Guru emancipates the mortal.
The Guru is discriminating and the Guru looks upon all alike. Meeting with him, the mortal's doubt is dispelled.
Meeting with the True Guru, I have obtained the Supreme status. Unto the True Guru, I am a sacrifice.
People wander about practising hypocrisy and deception. Evil are avarice and hypocrisy in this world.
In this world and the yonder one, They become miserable and standing over their head, the Death's courier smites them.
With the day-break, they take care of their household affairs and poisonous worldly entanglements.
When the night falls, they enter the dreamland and even in dreams they look after their afflictive and mortal riches.
Taking a barren field, man sows falsehood therein; therefore he shall gather all falsehood in his thrashing floor.
All the apostate persons remain extremely hungry and the tyrant Death's courier stands ever at their door.
The perverse person has incurred an immense debt of sins. Reflecting over the Name, this debt is liquidated.
As many are the demandants of debt; so many the Lord makes his slaves, who repair to his feet.
All the beings that the Lord of the world has created; tearing open their noses and loading them all with snaffles, the Lord makes them bow before Him.
Nanak, as the beloved Lord Master wills and as He drives, so are we driven, so are we driven.
Nat 4th Guru.
O my Lord-God, bathe Thou me in the tank of the Nectar-Name.
The True Guru's Divine knowledge is the excellent ablution. Obtaining it, the filth of sins is washed off. 'Pause.
The advantage of the holy company is very great. The whore was emancipated by teaching the parrot to utter the Lord's Name.
Being pleased, Krishan trampled on the hunch-back and this touch took her to the True Realm.
Ajamal bore love to his son and shouted forth as Narain. N.B. The word Narain means God and Narain was the Name of his son, too.
His faith pleased my Lord's mind and He smote and expelled the myrmidons of death.
Man utters and uttering makes people hear, but he reflects not over that what he utters.
When the mortal meets with the society of saints, then obtains the staunchness of faith and the Lord's Name ferries him across.
As long as his mind and body are whole and full, so long, he remembers not his God, in the, least.
But, when the house and mansion catch fire, is that the time for the water-man to dig a well to draw water from that.
O man, associate thou not with the mammon-worshipper, who has forgotten the Lord God's Name.
The word of the mammon-worshipper stings like a scorpion. Leave thou the apostate far away.
Embrace, embrace thou love and embrace thou great love for thy Lord. Clinging to the saints, thou shalt be embellished, O man.
They, who accept the wards of the Guru as absolutely true, are very dear to my Lord.
By virtue of bits of good deeds done in the previous births one loves the Name of God, the Lord Master, in this life.
By the Guru's grace, man obtains the immortalising Name-Nectar. This Nectar's praise, he hymn and this Nectar he reflects upon.
O my deep red, jewel-like beloved Lord-God, all the forms and colours, are Thine.
As is the colour, Thou givest, O Lord! That alone becomes manifest, What can the poor man do O Nanak?
Nat 4th Guru.
Seeking the Guru's protection, the Lord-Master so saves the mortal,
as he had saved the elephant who prayed to Him stretching forth his trunk out of the water, on being seized and thrown in the water by the crocodile. Pause.
Very greatly sublime are the Lord's slaves. Thy install their Lord's in their mind with faith.
Faith and devotional service are pleasing to my Master's mind and he saves the honour of His serfs.
The Lord Master's slave yokes himself to His service and perceives the Lord contained in the whole world.
He beholds the only one Lord, who looks upon all alike.
God, the Lord Master is pervading all the places and takes care of the whole world as His handmaid.
Of Himself the compassionate Lord mercifully gives gifts, even to the worms and insects in the stones.
Within him is the great fragrance of the musk, but deluded by doubt, the deer horns the bushes.
Wandering through and seeking, searching woods and forests, l was tired, but the Perfect Guru emancipated me in my very home.
Gurbani is the embodiment of the Guru and the Guru is the embodiment of Gurbani. In the whole of Gurbani is contained the Nectar.
If the attendant acts up to what Gurbani enjoys, the Guru in person(verily) saves him.
The Lord is amongst all and pervading all over is the Lord. He makes man eat what he has sown.
As for example, Dhirstbudhi saint annoyed saint Chanderhaus. However, in an attempt to destroy Chanderhaus, he set his own house on fire. (Note: As per Hindu mythology, Chanderhaus was the son of king Dharma. Dhristbudhi bore ill-will for Chanderhaus and
The Lord's slave longs for Him in his mind and the Lord watches every breath of his.
In His mercy, mercy, the Lord establishes His devotion within him and for His slave's sake, He saves the world.
The Lord Master is all by Himself and the Lord Himself embellishes the world.
Of Himself, the Lord is pervading everywhere, O slave Nanak and showing His mercy, He Himself emancipates the mortals.
Nat 4th Guru.
Showering Thine benediction, O Lord, save Thou me,
as Thou, O Lord-God, had saved Daropadi from shame, when she was seized and brought in the court by the miscreants.
I am a beggar and a serf of Thine door, O my Beloved and ask for a boon from Thee. Show Thou, The mercy, unto me.
I ever long for my True Guru. Lead me Thou to the Guru-God, that I may be embellished.
The deeds of an infidel are like the churning of water and he daily agitates water.
Meeting the society of the saints, one is blessed with the supreme status and taking out butter, he eats it with relish.
Ever, ever man washes his body and ever the rubs, cleanses and polishes the body.
If the word of my True Guru is not pleasing to his mind, then all his beauteous decorations are, in vain.
Walk ye with and dalliance, O my mates and comrades and contemplate ye over the virtues of my Lord.
The service of the Supreme Guru, pleases my Lord, Through the True Guru, I have known the Unknowable Lord.
Women and men and all the men and women have welled up from the one Lord, the Enemy of pride.
My mind loves the dust of the feet of the saintly persons. The Lord God emancipates the mortals, who associates with His slaves.
I wandered from village to village and through all the cities, but through the Lord's slaves I found God in my very mind.
Faith and confidence have welled up within me and the Great Guru-God has emancipated and blended me with the Lord.
The entire lineage of my breaths the True Guru has rendered sublime and I now reflect over the Name.
Arriving at my own home, I now drink in the immortalising Name-Nectar and see the world within, without eyes.
Thine excellences, O Lord, I can describe not. Thou art the Temple and I a tiny worm.
Show Thou mercy unto Nanak and make me meet the Guru contemplating my Lord, my soul is comforted.
Nat 4th Guru.
O my soul, meditate thou on the Inaccessible and Infinite and virtueless.
I am a great sinner and virtueless. The Guru has mercifully emancipated me. Pause.
I have met with my sweet, Guru the saintly person and the holy man and make a supplication before him.
Bless thou me with the capital and wealth of the Lord's Name, Wherewith thirst and hunger are all effaced.
Moth, deer, bumble-bee, elephant and first are dominated and ruined by one passion each.
But in the body are the five powerful demons. The Great True Guru turns out these evil doers.
The six Shastras and the four Vedas I have carefully searched and seen, and Narad, the silent sage, too utters the same words.
That in the society of the saints and through the Guru's grace, man is emancipated and delivered, by uttering the Lord's Name.
He, who enshrines affection for his Beloved Lord, beholds Him as the lotus does the sun.
When the descending clouds roar, the pea-cock greatly dances on the summer mountain.
Though the mammon-worshipper be greatly irrigated with ambrosia, even then all its branches and flowers become venomous.
The more man bows in humility before a perverse person, the more he provokes, pricks and spits out poison.
Remain thou united with the holy Guru, the saint of the saints, who utters the Lord's praise for the public good.
Meeting with the Guru, the holiest of the holy, my soul blossoms like the Lotus, which is embellished by obtaining the water.
The current of avarice is all like the dog's madness. This madness has spoiled everything.
When the news reached the court of my Lord. then taking up the sword of Divine knowledge, the Great-God did slay it.
Save, save, save Thou me, O my Master and rescue me by showering Thine benediction.
Nanak, I have not any other support. The Great True Guru has ferried me across.
Rag Mali Gaura 4th Guru.
There is but one God. True is His Name, Creative His personality and immortal His form. He is without fear, sans enmity, unborn and self illumined. By the Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Millions have made efforts, but have found not the Lord's limit.
God is Unapproachabel, Unfathomable, Unapprehensible and above human understanding, My salutation is unto that Lord-God, the King. Pause.
Gripped by lust, wrath, avarice and worldly love men ever quarrel and are involved in strifes.
My God, the Lord Master, I have entered Thine sanctuary. Save, save Thou, Thy meek creature.
O Lord-Master, Thou sustaineth him who seeks Thy refuge and Thy repute is that Thou lovest Thine saints.
Prahlad, Thy slave, was caught by Harnakhsh. Thou didst save and emancipated him, O God.
To mount to His mansion, remember thou thy God, O man Lord, the King, is the Destroyer of the pains.
The Lord destroys the fear of birth and death By Guru's instruction; the Lord God is attained to.
The Name of the Lord God is the Purifier of the sinners. I sing the praise of God, the Destroyer of the dread of His devotees.
He who wears the necklace of the Lord on his heart's neck, merges in His Name, O slave Nanak,
Mali Gaura, 4th Guru.
O my soul, meditate thou on the Peace giving Name of thy Lord.
Meeting the society of the saints, he who enjoys God's relish, comes to realise his Lord through the Guru's grace. Pause.
By the greatest good fortune, man is blessed with the Guru's vision and meeting with the Guru, he knows his Lord God,
Bathing in the Lord God's ambrosial tank, all the filth of the evil intellect is washed off.
Hail! hail unto the saints, who have obtained their Lord-God. I enquire from them the legends of the Lord.
I repair to their feet and ever make supplication before them: Show ye mercy and unite me with my creator-Lord.
By virtue of the writ on my brow I have attained to the Saint-Guru and through his Gurbani, my mind and body are imbued with the Lord.
The Lord-God has come and met me, I have obtained peace and am rid of all the misdeeds and sins.
Sublime are the words of those, who by Guru's instruction, have obtained their Lord, the Home of elixir.
By great good luck, one is blessed with the dust of their feet. Slave Nanak falls at their feet.
Mali Gaura, 4th Guru.
All the adepts, strivers and silent sages contemplate on God with their hearty Love.
lllimitable is my Transcendent Lord. Guru has shown unto me unknowable God. Pause.
I do mean and evil deeds and meditate not on my Lord, the king.
God has led me to meet my True Guru, who, in an instant, has freed me of my bonds.
Such is the Lord's pre-ordained writ on my brow, that by Guru's instruction, I have now come to embrace affection for my God.
The five melodious melodies play in the Lord's court. Meeting my Lord, I now sing the songs of rejoicing.
The Purifier of sinners is the Name of the exalted Lord, The unfortunate ones like it not.
They putrefy in the womb existences and dissolve like salt in water.
Bless Thou me with such understanding O my Infinite God, the Lord-Master, that my soul may remain attached to the Guru's feet.
Serf Nanak remains yoked to the Lord God's Name and in the Name he is merged.
Mali Gaura, 4th Guru.
My soul is attached to the elixir of the Lord's Name.
I have obtained my Guru and my heart lotus has blossomed. Contemplating my God, my doubt and dread have fled. Pause.
Through my Lord's fear my mind is attached, to His affectionate service and by Guru's instruction, my sleeping soul has awakened.
Clasping my God to my Mind, by great fortune, my sins are effaced and I have obtained peace.
The perverse person is like the false dye of saf-flower. This flower remains wholesome but For four days (For a short while).
The perverse person is greatly distressed and perishes in an instant. The Righteous Judge awards him severe punishment.
Like the durable dye of madder, supremely fast, is the Lord's love, acquired through the saints association.
The body cloth is torn into many shreds, but the very auspicious dye of the Lord's love wears not off.
The illustrious Guru is imbued with the deep red dye. He who meets with the Guru, him He dyes in the God's colour.
Attendant Nanak washes the feet of that man, who is attached to the Lord's feet.
Mali Gaura, 4th Guru.
O my soul, deliberate thou over the Name of God-Lord, the Cherisher of the world.
My mind and body are merged in the Lord's Name and by Guru's instruction, my intellect is imbued with Lord, the Home of elixir. Pause.
Under Guru's instruction, contemplate thou the Lord-Master's Name and in thy mind, tell the beads of the rosary of God's meditation.
They, who bear such a writ on their forehead, meet with my flower-girt God-Lord.
They who meditate on God's Name; all their entanglements are past.
The Death's Courier draws not near them. The Guru-God, the Saviour, saves them.
I, a child, know nothing. God nurtures me like mother and father.
I, ever, thrust my hand in mammon's fire, but the compassionate Guru saves me, the meek one.
I the very filthy one, have become immaculate, Hymning the Lord's praise, my sins are burnt down to ashes.
Attaining to the Guru, my mind is in bliss. Slave Nanak is enraptured, Through the Lord's Name.
Mali Gaura, 4th Guru.
O my soul, meditating on the God, be thou rid of all thine sins.
God's Name, the Perfect Guru has enshrined within my mind. My head, place I ever on the Guru's path. Pause.
Who-so-ever recites to me the anecdote of my God-Lord; cutting and serving my heart, I surrender it to him.
The Perfect Guru has united me with my God, the Friend. For receiving the Guru's word, I have sold myself off at every shop.
Though man may distribute many alms at Allahabad in the Makar Zodiac and get his body cut into two at Banaras,
and though he may give much Gold in several bars, but without the Lord's Name, he can obtain not any salvation.
When under Guru's instruction, man chants the Lord's glory and praise, his mind's doors, locked by deception, are flung open.
When the three qualities are shattered, doubt and dread flee away and the ere then vessel of public opinion bursts.
They alone attain unto the Perfect Guru in the Darkage, on whose brow and forehead there is such a preordained writ.
Servant Nanak has quaffed the immortalising Nectar and all his hunger and thirst are quenched.
Mali Gaura, 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
O my soul, real bliss lies in the Lord's service.
False are other services and the death's courier ever smites the mortal on the head. Pause.
They alone, on whose forehead it is so writ, meet the society of saints.
They are ferried across the dreadful world-ocean by the saints of the Infinite God-Lord.
Renouncing the sins of avarice and worldly love, serve thou ever the saints' feet,
Abandon thou all other hopes Let thy hope rest only in the one formless Lord.
Some are the worshippers of mammon, who go astray in doubt and without the Guru are enveloped by pitch darkness.
What comes from God, happen that must, None can erase that writ.
Unfathomable is the beauty of the World-Lord and innumerable are the Names of the Infinite God.
Blest, blest! are those persons, O Nanak, who enshrine God's Name in their mind.
Mali Gaura, 5th Guru.
Unto the Lord's Name, I make an obeisance,
remembering whom one is emancipated. Pause.
By whose meditation, strifes are ended.
By whose meditation bonds are loosened.
By whose meditation the fool becomes wise.
By whose meditation one's lineage is saved.
By whose meditation dread and distress depart.
By whose meditation calamity is warded off.
By whose meditation the sins are effaced.
By whose meditation pain touches not.
By whose meditation heart blooms forth.
By whose meditation mammon one's slave.
Through whose contemplation, one is blessed with the treasure of wealth.
Through whose contemplation, one is emancipated in the end.
Purifier of the sinner is the Name of my God.
It saves millions of saints.
I, the meek one, have sought the protection of the slaves of the saints' salves.
Nanak places his forehead on the saints' feet.
Mali Gaura, 5th Guru.
Such a helper is the Lord's Name.
Contemplating the Lord in the saints society, one's affairs are arranged. Pause.
As is the boarding a boat for the drowning man.
As the dying lamp, burns by obtaining oil.
As the burning fire is quenched with pouring of water.
As the child is satiated by oozing milk in the mouth.
As in the battle, brother becomes a succourer.
As the hunger of the hungry man is satisfied with food.
As bursting of cloud saves the crop.
As in the tiger's refuge, One is well protected.
As with eagle's (Garar's) spell in the mouth, one fears not the snake.
As the cat can eat not the parrot in the cage.
As is the reflection in the mind for the eggs.
As the grains are saved by sticking to the central peg of the quern. (so does the Lord's Name emancipates those, who place it in their mind.)
Great is Thy glory, O God, I can narrate put a little.
Thou art lllimitable, Inaccessible and Inapprehensible, O God.
Thou art very high, great and Infinite.
Meditating on the Lord, one is ferried across, O Nanak.
Mali Gaura, 5th Guru.
My Master, fulfil Thou the aim of my life.
Bless Thou Thy slave with the glory of Thy Name. Pause.
I place my forehead on the saints' feet,
and their vision see I night and day, with my eyes.
With my hands, perform I the saints' service.
Unto the saints, dedicate I my life, soul and riches.
My mind loves the saints congregation.
The saints virtues abide within my mind.
The will of the saints is sweet unto my mind.
Seeing the saints, my heart lotus blossoms.
With the saints abide I, ever.
For the saints, I have a great thirst.
The saints' words are the charm of my soul.
By the grace of saints my sins are effaced;
This is the way of emancipation and this lone is my treasure.
My Merciful Master, bless me Thou with this gift.
Unto Nanak, O Lord, shower Thou Thy benediction.
The saints' feet I have enshrined within my mind.
Mali Gaura, 5th Guru.
God abides with all and is not far.
He is the Designer of chances and is ever present. Pause.
He is such, hearing whose Name, one comes to life,
woe is eradicated and weal comes to abide within.
God, the Lord Master, is all the treasure.
The silent sages perform His service.
He, in whose Home all are contained;
He, from whose door, no one returns empty handed;
He, who cherishes all the beings and creatures.
For ever and aye serve thou that Merciful Master.
He, in whose court justice is ever administered;
He, who is care-free and owes allegiance to none;
He, who does everything all by Himself.
Meditate thou on Him, O my soul.
Unto the society of saints, I am a sacrifice,
by associating with which, man is emancipated.
With the Lord's Name, my soul and body are imbued.
The Lord has blessed Nanak with this bounty.
Mali Gaura, 5th Guru Dupadas
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I have sought the refuge of the Omnipotent Lord.
My soul, body, wealth and capital belong to the One Lord. He is the Doer of all the deeds. Pause.
Remembering and contemplating God one is blessed with everlasting peace.
The Lord is the source of all life. My Mater is contained in mind, matter and all the places.
Shed thou all thy entanglements and sins, and ever hymn thy Lord's praise.
With Joined hands Nanak asks for a boon. Bless Thou me with Thy Name, O my Master.
Mali Gaura, 5th Guru.
Luminous and Infinite is my omnipotent Lord.
Who can know Thy wonderous plays? Thine limit and yonder shore one can fathom not. Pause.
In a moment, Thou, O Lord, art potent to establish and to make and unmake.
As many are the beings, created by Thee, O beneficent Lord, so many blesseth Thou with Thine gifts.
O my lofty and Inaccessible Lord, the Enemy of ego, Thine slave has sought Thy protection.
Pull Thou me out of the arduous and dreadful world-ocean. Serf Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Mali Gaura, 5th Guru.
Within my mind and body is enshrined my God, the Cherisher of the world.
My Lord, the Relation of the meek and the Lover of His saints, is ever, ever merciful. Pause.
In the beginning, middle and the end, Thou alone art, O Lord. Without Thee there is not another.
That Unique Lord is fully-filling all the worlds.
With my ears I hear God's praise, with mine eyes I see His vision and with the tongue I sing the Lord's excellences.
Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto The, O Lord Bless me Thou with Thy Name.
Mali Gaura, Thy hymns of Reverend Saint Namdev
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Blessed, blessed is the flute which the Lord sweet,
sweet, sweet and unbeaten sound issues forth from it. Pause.
Blessed, blessed is the fleece of the ram.
Blessed, blessed is Krishan who wears the blanket.
Blessed, blessed thou art, O mother Devki,
on whose home was born the Lord the Master of wealth.
Blessed, blessed is the forest region of Bindraban,
where the Venerable Lord does sport.
He plays the flute and grazes the cows.
The Lord of Namdev makes merry.
Hail, unto Thee, O my Darling Father, the Lord of wealth, Thou art long-haired and of dark color. Pause.
Holding in Thy hand the steel ring, Thou didst come from heaven and saved the life of great elephant.
In the court of Duhsasan, Thou saved the honour of Daropati, when her clothes were being removed off her body.
Thou emancipated Ahilya, the wife of Gautam, How many more hast Thou purified and ferried across?
The low and one without any caste, Namdev has sought Thy protection.
Within all the hearts the Lord speaks, the Omnipresent Lord speak.
Save the Lord, who is it that speaks?. Pause.
The same clay is in the elephant, the ant and the many varieties of vessels.
In immobile life, mobile beings, worms, moths and in every heart, the Lord is contained, O man;
Think of thou of one infinite Lord and abandon all other hopes, O man.
Supplicates Namdev, I have become desire-free and in this state who is the Lord and who the servant, O man?
Rag Maru 1st Guru Chaupadas.
There is but One God, True is His Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His form he is without fear, sans enmity, unborn and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace he is obtained.
Slok.
O my Friend, I remain ever the dust of Thine feet.
Nanak abides under Thy protection, and sees Thee ever just present.
A hymn.
They, who receive the call in the last watch of the night, meditate on their Lord's Name.
For them ever ready are seen the tents umbrellas, pavilions and carriages.
They who remember Thy Name, O Lord; them Thou callest in Thine presence.
O Father I am ill-destined and false.
Thy Name, I have obtained not. My mind is blind and is gone astray in doubt. Pause.
I have enjoyed revelments and so my miseries have flowered. Such was the primal writ, O my mother.
Now my joys are few and pains plentiful. In extreme agony I pass my life.
They, who are separated from God, what worse separation can they suffer? They who are united with the Lord, what other union is left for them?
Praise thou the Lord, who creating the world-play, is beholding it.
Through good deeds, human birth s is obtained and in this life the body enjoys worldly relishes.
They whose destiny's sun has set even obtaining the human birth, they remain separated from God. But still, O Nanak, there is hope of their union with the Lord.
Maru 1st Guru.
The union of mother and father brigs the body into being.
On that the Creator inscribed the writ of His will,
This writ relates to the gifts, light and glory.
Associating with the riches, the mortal loses the Divine under standing.
O Foolish man, why takes thou pride?
Thou shalt arise and depart when the Lord so pleases. Pause.
Abandon thou the worldly pleasures, that thou mayest obtain peace and poise.
Everyone has to abandon his home None can stay here permanently.
We may eat some part and treasure up the rest,
if we are to return to this world again.
Man bedecks his body and dresses in silk.
He issues many commands.
Making his couch easy, he sleeps thereon.
Why weeps he, when he falls into the hands of death's myrimidons?
Domestic involvements are a whirlpool, O brother.
Sin is a stone which bloats not.
Make thou thy soul, the boarder on the boat of the Lord's fear and thou float over.
Rare is the One, says Nanak, who is blessed with such a boat.
Maru 1st Guru.
Conduct is the paper and mind the inkpot. Good and had are the wrist, recorded thereon.
As the past deeds drive the man, so walks he To Thine excellences there is no limit, O God.
Why rememberest thou not the Lord in thy mind, O mad man?
Forgetting thy God, thy virtues shall dissolve away. Pause.
The Night is a net and the day, too, is a net. As many as are the moments, so many are the snares.
With great relish thou ever peckest at the bait and art ensnared O fool, by what virtues shalt thou escape?
The body is the furnace and the mind the iron therein. The five fires of passions are heating it.
Sin is the charcoal placed there on by which the mind is burnt and anxiety becomes the tongs.
The mind turned into dross, is again, transmuted into gold, if philosopher's stone like Guru be met.
He blesses man with the ambrosial Name of the One Lord and then his body and mind become fixed.
Maru 1st Guru.
O lo, both the lotus and the water-film abide in the filthless and immaculate water.
O the lotus abidest in the association of water-film and savoury water, but by their association no stigma attaches to it.
O frog, thou shall never obtain understanding.
Thou abidest in pure water and eatest water-film. Thou O frog, knowest not the worth of Nectar. Pause.
O frog, thou ever abidest in water, whilst the bumble-bee abides not there. The bumble-bee remains intoxicated with the merit-discourses of the lotus.
Seeing the moon from after, the Kamina-lotus blossoms and bows its head, by reason of its inner intuition.
Irrigating even with nectar, sugar, milk and honey, the gourd becomes not nectar, O frog.
Like the love of tick for the blood, thou leavest not ever thy own disposition.
The foolish persons, residing with a learned man, hears the Vedas and the Shastras.
Like the crooked tail of the dog, thou abandonest not thy own nature.
Some are hypocrites, who get not merged in the Name and some are attached to the God's feet.
Man obtains what is pre-destined for him. With thy tongue, utter thou the Lord's Name, O Nanak.
Maru 1st Guru.
Slok.
Attaching their soul to the Lord's feet, countless sinners become sanctified.
Through the Lord's Name, the merit of pilgrimage of the sixty-eight holies is obtained, He alone is blessed with the Name, O Nanak, on whose forehead good fortune is recorded.
A hymn.
O my ego engrossed mate and friend,
hear thou the one Peace-bestowing anecdote of the Spouse.
The pain, that I have; to whom should I tell that, O my mother?
Without my God, my soul can live not, How can I still it, O my mother. Pause.
I, the false bride, am greatly miserable.
Losing my beautiful youth, I, the bride, am feeling sorry.
Thou art the wise Lord over my head.
I perform Thy service and slave of Thine.
Says Nanak, I have but this anxiety;
Without having a vision of my beloved, ho can I enjoy Him?
Maru 1st Guru.
I am a purchased servant and slave of Thine, O Lord, and I go by the name of lucky.
In exchange for Thy Gurbani, O Lord, I have sold myself at Thy shop and whithersoever Thou hast yoked me, thither I am yoked.
What cleverness, O Lord, can Thy servant play with thee?
I can carry out not Thy command, O my master. Pause.
My mother is Thy slave my father is thy slave, O Lord, and I am a child of thine slaves.
My slave mother dances, my slave father sings and I perform Thine devotional service, O king.
If Thou mayest drink, then I may fetch Thee water, O Lord If Thou mayest eat, I may go to grind Thee corn.
I wave fan to Thee, shampoo Thine feet and continue to utter Thy Name.
Salt-betrayer is Nanak, Thy slave, O Lord, If Thou pardon him, it is to Thine glory.
Since the very beginning and the commencement of ages, Thou art the Merciful and Munificent Master. Without Thee, salvation can be obtained not.
Maru 1st Guru.
Some say poor Nanak is a spirit, others say that he is a demon,
and some call him a pitiful man.
Ignorant Nanak has become mad after his Lord.
Without God, I know not another. Pause.
Then should a man be called crazy, if he becomes crazy about the fear of God,
and recognises none other than the One Lord.
Then alone he is known to be insane, if he performs the One Lord's service,
and realises his Lord's command. In what else is there wisdom?
Then alone one is deemed insane, when he cherishes the love for One Lord,
and knows himself bad and rest of the world as good.
Maru 1st Guru.
This wealth of Lord's Name is fully contained amongst all.
The perverse person knows it to be afar, so he wanders out and about.
That commodity of the Lord's Name's wealth is within my mind.
Whosoever Thou bless with it, he is emancipated. Pause.
This wealth catches not fire, Nor can the thief take it away.
This wealth drowns not, nor is the owner of it punished.
See thou the greatness of this wealth,
that one's night and day pass, imbued with equipoise.
Hear thou one beautiful thing, O man, my brother.
Say, who has ever obtained supreme salvation without this wealth?
Says Nanak, "I utter the discourse of the ineffable Lord".
If man meets with the True Guru, then alone, obtains he this wealth;
Maru 1st Guru.
Burn thou off thy fiery nature and foster thy cool and calm disposition, Put thou thy life-breath in the right channel an d establish good relation with Thy Lord.
In this way, thy fish like mercurial mind shall be held and thy soul-swan shall fly not away from thy Lord and thy body-wall shall perish not, in vain.
O fool, why art thou gone astray in doubt?
Thou rememberest not thy Detached Lord, the embodiment of supreme bliss. Pause.
Seize and burn thou thy unbearable evil-desire, seize and subjugate thy imperishable mind and abandon thy doubt; Then shalt thou in-drink the Name-Nectar.
In this way thy fish-like mercurial mind shall be held and thy soul swan shall fly not away from thy Lord and thy body-wall shall perish not, in vain.
Says Nanak, if in the heart of his heart, man contemplates his Lord; then with every breath of his, he quaffs nectar.
In this way thy fish-like mercurial mind shall be held and thy soul-swan shall fly not away from thy Lord and thy body wall shall not perish in vain.
Maru 1st Guru.
The desire for wealth dies not, nor is the mind stilled. The worldly desires are the currents of the world-ocean and with their wine, man is intoxicated.
The body-boat, in which is the True Name's capital, floats over the water and reaches the yonder shore.
The Name-jewel within the mind stills the mind and attached to truth, the mind suffers not separation.
Imbued with the Lord's fear and the five virtues, soul, the King, is seated on the throne.
O father, see thou not thy true Lord afar.
The light of God, the life of the world is pervading everywhere and on every head is the True Lord's writ. Pause.
Brahma, Vishnu, hermits, silent saves Shiva, Indra, penitent sad beggars
Of these, whosoever obeys the Lord's will, looks beauteous at the True Court and the rebels and stiff-necked die away.
I have known through the Perfect Guru, that out of the wandering saints, warriors, celibates and solitarians,
none ever obtains fruit without the Lord service. His service is the most supreme deed.
O my Master, Thou art the wealth of the indigent, the Guru of the Guruless and honour of the dishonoured.
I, the blind one, have taken hold of the skirt of Guru, the Jewel Thou, O Lord, art the power of the powerless.
Through burnt-offerings and recitation of the religious books, the Lord is known not. The True One is realised by Guru's instruction.
Without the Name, one obtains not refuge at the Lord's court. The false ones continue coming and going.
Praise thou the True name. It is through the True Name, that one is satiated.
If man cleanses his soul with the jewel of gnosis, it goes not dirty again.
As long as the Lord abides in the man's mind, so long he meets with no obstacle, whatever.
Nanak, surrendering his head to the Lord, man is emancipated and sanctified become his soul and body.
Maru 1st Guru.
The Yogi, who is attached to the Lord's Name is pure. To him not even a particle of filth sticks.
The Beloved, True Lord, he ever deems to be with him and his state of coming and going is ended.
O Lord of the Universe, what is Thy Name like and how is it known?
If Thou callest me into Thy presence, I would ask Thee one thing, as to how can the mortal become one with Thee?. Pause.
He alone is a Brahman, who bathes in the God's gnosis and who has God's praise for his leaves of worship for his leaves of worship.
There is but One Name, one Pervading God and the one light in the three worlds.
Making my tongue the beam and this mind the pan of the scale, I weigh the inestimable Name.
There is but One shop and one Supreme Merchant above all. All the petty dealers deal in the same sort of commodity.
At both the ends, the True Guru saves. He alone understands it, who is attuned to the One Lord and whose mind is free from doubt.
He, who ever serves his Lord day and night, ends doubt and abides the Name in his mind.
High above is the sky, above the sky is God, the Protector of the world and the Unfathomable Great Lord of that world abides there.
By Guru's instruction, abroad and home, deem I alike Nanak has become such an anchoret.
Rag Maru 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace He is obtained.
One who loves Him is awake during day and night, and he slumbers and sleeps not.
He alone realise this state who is stricken with the Pain of separation.
My body is pierced through with the arrows of Divine love. How can a physician know its treatment?
He, whom the True Lord yokes to His praise and imparts Divine understanding,
rare, indeed, is such a Guru-ward.
He alone, who is the dealer of the Name-Nectar. Pause.
The bride bears love to her Groom,
and fixes her mind on the Guru's word.
With divine comprehension, the bride is greatly embellished and her craving and thirst are dispelled.
Man ought to dismiss his doubt, dispel his delusion,
and stretch the bow of the Lord's praise,
and by Guru's instruction he should efface his-self and still his mind, Then is he blessed with his beauteous Lord.
The mortal is burnt down with pride and forgets God from his mind.
In the city of the death's courier, he is struck with massive swords.
Now, by asking for it, the Lord's Name is obtained not. O soul, suffer thou now immense punishment.
One is involved in he thought of wealth and wealth and worldly love.
In the city of death, he is caught in the city of Yama's noose.
The shackles of secular attachment, thou cannot shatter; therefore torment thee.
I have done nothing, nor can I now do anything,
the True Guru has blessed me with the Nectar Name.
Whomsoever, thou, O True Guru, bless with the Lord's Name; what other effort should he make? Nanak seeks thy refuge, O Guru.
Maru 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
Wherever Thou seatest me, there do I sit and whithersoever Thou sendest me, thither go I, O Lord.
In the entire world village, there is but one King and all the places being Thine, are pure, O Lord.
O father, bless me, that as long as abide in the body, I may hymn Thine True praise,
by which I shall easily be absorbed in the Lord. Pause.
Whatsoever had or good deed is done; of that I deem my self the doer. This self-hood is the source of all the evil.
Whatever is taking place in this world; is happening in the Lord's will.
The sexual passion is said to be the very strong urge, but where from has this sexual impulse sprung?
Of Himself, the Creator stages all the plays, but rare is the one who realises like this.
By Guru's grace, man is attuned to the One Lord. It is then that he is purged of duality.
Whatsoever is His will, that he accepts as true and Death's noose is loosened for him.
Says Nanak, who can call him to account, when his mind's ego is stilled?
He has entered the True Lord's sanctuary and even the Righteous Judge is greatly afraid of him.
Maru 3rd Guru.
When man obtains an abode in his own Home, his comings and going end, then.
The Lord blessed the mortal with the True Treasure and he, the Lord, Himself knows whom He is going to bless.
Renouncing thy mind's evil O my soul, remember thou thy Venerable God.
By Guru's instruction, contemplate thou God's Name, and thou shall be attuned to truth. Pause.
Forgetting the Name over here, one finds not refuge anywhere again.
He is made to wander in all the existences and putrefies he in ordure.
Through great good fortune and by virtue of the primal writ, I have obtained my Guru, O mother.
By rendering true service, Night and day the True Lord unites the mortal with Himself.
Of Himself, the Lord has created the entire world and of Himself, casts He His Merciful glance.
Nanak, all the glories are in the Lord's Name, Him alone he blesses with it, whom He wills.
Maru 3rd Guru.
O Sire Lord, forgive Thou my past misdeeds and now put me Thou on the right path.
Effacing my self-conceit from within me, I now remain attached to Thine feet, O God.
O my soul, l m by Guru's grace, contemplate thou thy Lord's Name.
With single mind and unique affection, ever remain thou attached to the God's Feet. Pause.
I have no caste, nor any honour and posses I no hamlet, nor anyplace.
Piercing me with the Divine word the Guru has dispelled my doubt and made me realise the Lord's Name.
This mortal wanders about in greed and to greed it is attached.
In false pursuits, He is engrossed and suffers strokes in the city of Yama.
Nanak, the Lord is everything by Himself. There is not any other.
The Guru-wards, He blesses with the treasure of His devotional service and thereby they obtain peace.
Maru 3rd Guru.
Search and find out those who are imbued with Truth. Rare are they in this world.
Meeting with them, man's countenance becomes bright and he utters the Name of God, the Enemy of ego.
O man, contemplate thou the Name of thy True Lord within the mind.
See and consult thy True Guru and searching out, obtain thou the commodity of Name. Pause.
Everyone serves the one True Lord. It is through the primal good destiny, that one meets with him.
Attaining the True Lord, the Guru-wards blend with Him. From Him they separate not again.
Some realise not the worth of the Lord's devotion, Those egocentrics, stray in doubt.
In them abides self-conceit, so they cannot do any good thing.
He, with whom power avails not; before Him ever stand thou in prayer.
Nanak, the Name is enshrined within the mind of the pious person,. Then, hearing prayer, the Lord applauds him.
Maru 3rd Guru.
The Lord turns the burning desert into a cool place and makes the rusted into gold.
Praise thou that True Lord, None else is so great as He.
O my soul, night and day remember thou the Lord's Name.
By the True Guru's instruction, meditate thou on God and ever hymn thou, His virtues. Pause.
The Guru-ward comes to know the One Lord when the True Guru so instructs Him.
Eulogise thou that True Guru from whom this divine understanding is obtained.
'Forsaking the True Guru, they who are attached to another what shall they do reaching yond?
Bound down in the city of death they are soundly beaten and suffer great punishment.
Self-dependent is my Lord. He has not even an iota of avarice.
Hastily run thou to His refuge, O Nanak. Granting pardon, He shall blend thee with himself.
Maru 4th Guru.
There is but One God, By True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
Sukdev and Janak, meditated on the Name, through the Guru's instruction and God's refuge did they seek.
The Remover of poverty met Sudama, who through the Lord's devotional service, swam across the world-ocean.
Fulfilling is the Lord's Name, God is the lover of his saints. It is through the Guru, that he showers His benediction on the mortals.
O my soul, contemplating the Name, one is emancipated.
Dhru, Prahlad and Biddar the hand-maiden, son, swam across, contemplating the Name through the Guru. Pause.
In this Darkage the Lord's Name is the supreme wealth through it, the saintly persons are saved.
All the blemishes of Namdev, Jaidev, Kabir, Tirlochan and Ravidas, the tanner, were dispelled.
They, who are attached to the Name, by the Guru's grace, are emancipated. All their misdeeds and sins are washed off.
All the sins of the sinners, who meditate on the Lord's Name are eradicated.
Ajmal, who mated with whores, was delivered by uttering with his mouth Name of God, the Man lion.
Uttering the Name, Ugarsain obtained salvation. His shackles were shattered and he was liberated.
God. Himself has taken pity on His slave and has hugged him to His bosom.
My God, the Lord of the Universe, saves the honour of His serf. They, who seek His refuge, are emancipated.
The Lord-God has shown mercy unto Nanak, His slave and so he has enshrined His Name within his mind.
Mali Gaura, 4th Guru.
The adepts in their trance are attuned to the Lord and dwell upon Him. The strivers and the silent sages, too, meditate on Him.
The celibates and men of chastity and contentment meditate on Him. Indar and the like, too, utter His Name with their mouth.
They, who utter the Lord's sanctuary and ponder over Him become pleasing to Him. such holy men swim across.
Deliberating over the Name, one is saved, O my soul.
Dhanna, the farmer, and Balmik, the highway robber, were emancipated by Guru's grace. Pause.
The gods, men, heavenly heralds and celestial singers dwell upon God and the poor Righteous God and the poor Righteous Judge, too, sings the Lord's praise.
Shiva, Brahma and goddess repeat and utter the God's Name with their mouth.
They whose soul is saturated with the Lord Master's name; they are ferried across by Guru's grace.
Thirty three millions and numberless gods ponder on Him. O endless are the beings who deliberate over the Lord.
The Vedas, Puranas and Shastras dwell upon God and the Scholars, too. with their mouth, sing God's praise.
They within whose mind, God's Name, the home of Nectar, abides; those Guru-wards swim across.
They, who utter the name of God of infinite waves; their number I cannot count.
He, who is pleasing to the God-Master's mind, Him the Lord of the universe mercifully approves.
Showering His benediction, the Guru has implanted the Lord's Name within me and slave Nanak utters but the Name.
Maru 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Through the Guru's guidance, gather thou the treasure of the God's name and thereby thou shalt obtain honour in the Lord's court.
Here and hereafter, God goes with thee and shall deliver thee in the end.
Where there are difficult paths and narrow streets, there the Lord-master alone shall rescue thee.
O my True Guru, enshrine thou within me the Lord-God's Name.
The Lord is my mother, father, son and relation. Without God, I have not another, O my mother. Pause.
God's Name and God is dear unto me. Let some one come and unite me with Him, O my mother.
I make obeisance before him, who may make me meet with my beloved.
The mighty and merciful True Guru is the embodiment of the Lord. He make no delay in uniting the mortal with God.
They, who deliberate not over the Lord Master's Name are unfortunate and are annihilated.
They are, over and over again, goaded into existences. They die, are reborn and continue coming and going.
Bound at the death's door, they are soundly beaten and suffer punishment at the God's court.
Thou art my Master, I seek Thine refuge, O God, the king, unite Thou me with Thyself.
O God, the life of the world, take Thou pity on me and keep me under the protection of the Great True Guru.
Becoming merciful, the Sire Lord-Master has blended serf Nanak with Himself.
Maru 4th Guru.
I ask about the commodity of Name. let some one point out to me the God's True riches.
I am a sacrifice, bit by bit, unto him, who makes me meet with my God Master.
Within my mind is the love of my Beloved. How can I meet my God, The Friend, that I may blend with Him?
O man my dear friend, I posses the wealth and capital of the Master's Name.
The Perfect Guru has enshrined the Name within me, The Lord is my support and all honour is unto my Lord. Pause.
O my Guru, unite thou me with the Lord and reveal unto me the Divine wealth and capital.
Without the Guru, the Lord's love wells up not. See and ascertain thou in thy mind, O man.
God has enshrined Himself in the Guru and he unites man with God. Hail, hail unto my Guru.
With the Perfect True Guru is the ocean and treasure of the Lord's devotional service.
By His pleasure, the True Guru opens treasure and the supreme Guru wards are blessed with the Lord's Light.
The Unfortunate apostate dies of thirst on the bank of the ambrosial stream.
The Guru is the beneficent Giver and I ask for this boon from the Guru,
that he may unite me with my Lord, from whom I am separated since long. This alone is the great desire of my heart and body.
Serf Nanak makes a supplication. If it so please thee, O my Guru, hear thou this entreaty of mine.
Maru 4th Guru.
O Guru, preach to me thou the God's discourse, By thine teaching His discourse, By thine teaching His discourse is enshrined in my mind.
Deliberate thou over the Lord's discourse, O fortunate man and thy God shall bless thee with the sublime and imperishable status.
Within the mind of the Guru-wards is faith and through the Perfect Guru they merge in the Lord's Name.
O my soul, the Lord's discourse is pleasing to my mind.
O my mind, ever, ever utter Thou the God's gospel and by Guru's grace narrate the Lord's ineffable story. Pause.
Somehow to attain to this story worth narrating, I have searched and sought my mind and body
Meeting with the holy persons, I have obtained my Lord and hearing the inexpressible Divine sermon, my mind is pleased.
Within my mind and body is the support of the Lord's Name, by which, my union with the Omniscient Master is effected.
The mighty Guru has united me with the mighty Lord and meeting with Him my understanding has merged in the supreme understanding.
By great good fortune I have served my Guru and obtained the discrete and wise Lord.
The perverse persons are ill-destined. Their life night passes in distress.
I am a meek mumper of Thine, O Lord, Pour Thou Thy ambrosial Gurbani into my mouth.
The True Guru is my Friend. O my Guru, unite me thou with my accomplished and Omniscient God.
Servant Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary, O my God. Be Thou merciful and blend me with Thy Name.
Maru 4th Guru.
Becoming desireless, I have been attuned to my God and through the great good fortune I have enshrined in my mind the Lord's Name.
Meeting with the society of saints, faith has welled up within me and by Guru's instruction, I taste the Lord's elixir.
Uttering the Lord's praise, through the Guru's word, my soul and body have all blossomed.
O my sweet soul, my friend, in drink thou Nectar of thy Lord God's Name.
Through the Perfect Guru, I have attained to my God, who saves my honour here and hereafter. Pause.
Contemplate thou thy God's Name and by Guru's grace taste thou the relish of His praise.
Sow thou the God's Name in thy body-farm. The Lord abides in the guild of the saints.
The Lord-Master's Name is in the Nectar. Through the Perfect Guru, quaff thou the Lord's elixir.
The infidels are filled with desire, In their mind they hope to amass many lakhs by running about in ten directions;
Without the Name, accursed is the human life. The way-wards are made to abide in ordure.
They come and go and are goaded into many existences. They eat the foul-smelling ordure.
Imploring and beseeching, I have sought Thine refuge, Mercifully save Thou me, O my Lord God.
Unite me Thou with the society of the saints and bless me with the honour and credit of Thy Name.
I have obtained the wealth of God Lord's Name and serf Nanak utters the Master's Name under the Guru's instruction.
Maru 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The Lord God's treasures are brimful with devotion.
It is through the Guru, that the Lord emancipates man.
To whomsoever my Lord shows mercy; alone sings the God's praise.
O my flower-gift God, the Lord-master take Thou pity on me,
that within my mind I may ever, ever remember Thee.
Meditate thou on thy God's Name, O my soul. It is the meditation of the Name of the Lord that shall emancipate thee. Pause.
God's ambrosial Name is an ocean of peace.
The alms-man asks for it. O God, bless Thou him with it in Thy mercy.
True, true is my God. My Lord is ever true. The true Master is pleasing unto my mind.
The nine apertures out pour filth.
Uttering the Name all the organs are sanctified.
If my God Lord is highly pleased, one is purged of one's filth by meditating on his God.
Extremely stormy is the sea of the attachment of worldly valuables.
How can one ferry across the arduous world ocean?
The True Guru blesses man with the ship of the True Lord and meditating on His Lord-God, he swims across.
Thou art the Lord of all and every one belongs to Thee.
Whatever Thou do, O Lord, that alone comes to pass.
Poor, slave Nanak sings God's praise, but if it so pleases the Lord Master, then alone is he approved.
Maru 4th Guru.
Contemplate thou thy Lord-God's Name, O my soul.
God shall wipe out all thy sins.
Enshrine thou the Lord's wealth in thy mind and treasure thou the Lord's wealth. God, thy succourer, shall go along with thee, when you depart in the end.
He alone deliberates over Him, on whom is His grace.
He ever embraces God's meditation and meditating on his God, procures peace.
By Guru's grace, God's relish is obtained. Contemplating his God, the mortal is ferried across. Pause.
The meditation of the Fearless and Formless Lord,
is the sublime and majestic avocation in this world.
I, the Lord's slave, slay at site, Death's courier, the foe and arch enemy of the mortals, so the Lord's slave.
He, with whom the Lord is heartily pleased;
that slave is known in the four ages and the four directions.
If some sinner speaks ill of him; the myrmidon of death eats him up.
Amongst all is the one Pure Creator-Lord.
He works all His wondrous plays and beholds them.
He, whom the Lord saves and whom the creator Himself delivers; who can do him to death?
Night and day, utter I the Name of my Creator-Lord,
who has emancipated His attendants and saints.
Go and consult all the eighteen Puranas and the four Vedas, O slave Nanak, the Lord's Name delivers all.
Maru 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
In the Lord's fear are the earth, the sky and the stars. Over their head is the powerful order of the Master.
The wind, water and fire are in His fear and poor Indar too abides in the Lord's fear.
I have heard one thing, that the Lord alone is fear free.
he alone is in peace and he alone is ever embellished, who meeting with the Guru, hymns the Lord's praise. Pause.
The corporeal being sand gods are in the Lord's fear and the adepts and seekers die in His dread.
The eighty-four lacs of beings repeatedly die and are born. They are yoked to existences over and over again,
The optimists, pessimists and egotists and the beings created with multifarious forms abide in the Lord's fear.
This helpless deceitful mammon fears the Lord and greatly afraid of Him is also the Righteous judge.
The entire creation is engrossed in the Lord's fear. Fear-free is only the Creator Lord.
Says Nanak, the Lord is the companion of His devotees and His devotees look beauteous in His court
Maru 5th Guru.
The five year old patronless boy, Dhru, became eternal and moveless by meditating on his God.
For the love of his son, Ajamal called upon the Lord, who smote and drove away the Death's myrmidons.
My Lord has emancipated many and numberless mortals.
I am meek of paltry understanding and without virtue. I have sought the protection of the Lord's door. Pause.
Pariah Balmik was emancipated and so was saved the poor huntsman.
Within his mind, the great elephant remembered God even for a moment and he was saved.
The Lord preserved saint Prahlad and tore Harnakhash with His nails.
Bidar, the son of handmaiden, was sanctified and his entire lineage became illustrious.
What sins of mine should I narrate? I am intoxicated with the false worldly love.
Nanak has come to God, sanctuary and refuge. O Lord, stretch out Thine arms and take me Thou into Thy embrace.
Maru, 5th Guru.
For the sake of riches, I have wandered in various ways and have made many efforts and dashes.
As many deed as I did in ego and pride, so many have gone in vain.
All others days are of no avail to me whatsoever,
my Sire master, bless me Thou with the days, when I may sing Thy praise. Pause.
Beholding other's wife, home and other paraphernalia man is involved in these.
Tasting the wine of mammon, man is inebriated and he sings not God's praise, ever.
This way, of meditation I have searched through many devices, but without the saints it is obtained not.
Thou art the great, powerful and beneficent Lord. I have come to beg bounty from Thee.
Abandoning all ego and glory, I have sought the refuge of the dust of the Lord's slave.
Says Nanak, meeting with God, I have become one with him and am blessed with supreme pleasure and peace
Maru 5th Guru.
At what place is man's glory stationed and where does his pride abide?
Hearken O man by hearing abuses what cut has thou sustained on thy face?
Hear, O man, who art thou and where comest thou from?
Even this much thou knowest not, that how long thou hast to stay here, Thou hast no tiding regarding thy departure. Pause.
Air and water have tolerance and humility and earth possesses forbearance, no doubt.
The union of such like five, elements has fortunately brought thee, into being, Say, which from amongst these is evil?
He, the powerful Creator, who has made thy make and has also put pride into thee;
He alone is born and dies and He alone comes and goes.
Nothing of the colour and sign of the creation shall remain. Illusory is the entire universe
Says Nanak, when he disestablishes His play, then only the one Unique. Lord remains.
Maru 5th Guru.
I am purged of the sins of pride, worldly love and avarice. Except God, I enshrine none in my mind.
I have purchased the Name jewel and God's praise. Loading this merchandise. I have set out on my journey.
The love of the Lord's slave has endured to the end.
In my life-time I have served my Lord and now while departing, I have enshrined Him in my mind. Pause.
As is the command issued by My Master; from that I have turned not my face away.
If He keeps me in home, I deem it peace and pleasure and if He asks me to quit, then there from I run to vacate it.
Privation in the Lord's will; That I accept as bliss Weal and woe I know not.
Whatever is the command of my Lord; That I accept cheerfully on my forehead.
The Lord has become merciful unto His serf and his this world and the yonder one are embellished.
Blessed is the slave and fruitful is his advent, who O Nanak, realises Lord.
Maru 5th Guru.
My destiny has awakened, the Lord has shown mercy unto me and sing the Lord-Master's praise.
My anguish is over, I have found peace and my wandering has all ceased.
I have now obtained the dignity of eternal life.
Seeking the refuge of the saints, remember I the Creator-Lord within my mind. Pause.
I have banished lust, wrath, avarice and worldly attachment and all mine enemies, too, are wiped off.
My Lord is ever present and always in my view, He is not ever far from me.
Through the saints' assistance I have obtained happiness and peace and all my desires are fulfilled.
In an instant, the Lord has purified the sinners. His praise can be expressed not.
I have become fearless and all my fear has departed. The World-Lord's feet are my only refuge.
Nanak hymns Lord's praise and fixes his attention on Him, night and day.
Maru 5th Guru.
He, who is All-powerful and the Master of all the virtues; Him, O man, thou sing not ever.
What thou hast to leave in an instant; again and again thou seest and runnest after that, O man.
Why not contemplate on Lord, O mortal?
Thou art engrossed in the association of thine enemies and enjoyment of pleasures. With them thou art burning thy soul, O man. Pause.
He, on hearing whose Name, Death's Courier releases thee; of Him thou enterest not the sanctuary.
Turn out thou the wretched jackal (of greed) and seek thou the refuge of that Lord.
Hearing whose praise, the world ocean is crossed; with Him, thou embraceth not love, O man.
Why art thou again and again involved in the dream like short-lived paltry thing?
When Lord, the ocean of compassion, becomes merciful, the mortal obtain honour through the society of saints.
Says Nanak, when the Lord becomes succourer, one is rid of the illusion of mammon of three qualities.
Maru 5th Guru.
The inner-knower understands all the plans, What can be kept concealed from Him?
Thine hands and feet fall off in a moment, when thou art burnt with fire.
O fool, from thy mind, thou has forgotten the Lord.
Eating thy Master's salt, thou break faith with Him. Whilst eyes look on, thou shall be torn asunder. Pause.
The incurable disease wells up in the body, which cannot be fended off by any one's fending.
Forgetting the Lord, the mortal meets with extreme agony. This is the quintessence, that Nanak has found through due deliberation.
Maru 5th Guru.
The Lord's lotus feet I have enshrined within my mind.
Ever, ever sing I the praise of my God.
Without Him, there is not any other second.
He alone is in the beginning, the middle and the end.
O Himself, the Lord, is the support of His saints. Pause.
He, in whose sway is the entire universe;
he, the Formless Lord who is Himself all-in-all;
Nanak has clung to that True Lord.
He has obtained peace and he shall suffer not pain again.
Maru 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O unwise man, why forget thou the Giver of peace to Thy very life and the Dispenser of bliss to thy soul?
In-drinking the worthless wine, thou has gone mad and wasted thy invaluable life in vain.
Such silliness practise thou, O man.
Forsaking the Lord the bow-holder stray in doubt and are attached to the worldly love and the company of mammon, the slave-girl. Pause.
Renouncing thy Lord, the support of the earth, thou serve the hand-maiden of low lineage and thy life passes practising pride and ego.
O ignorant man, thou do vain deeds and are therefore called perverse and blind.
Thou deem as false, what is true, and what is perishable, that thou think to be permanent.
Thou hold as thy own what belongs to another. In such an error thou are gone amiss.
The Khashatri, the Brahman, the Sudras and the Vaish, all of the so-called four castes swim across through the one Lord's Name.
Guru Nanak utters Divine sermon, whosoever hears it; he is ferried across.
Maru 5th Guru.
One does evil deeds in secrecy, but he, the Lord is with him, he can deceive only the mortals.
Forgetting thy Reverend Master thou enjoy sexual pleasures. Thou shall be made to embrace red hot pillars.
O man, why go thou to another's woman?
O filthy, heartless and lustful donkey, has thou not heard of the Righteous Judge? Pause.
The stone of sin is tied to thy neck and the load of slander is on thy head.
Thou has to cross the great sea and ocean, Thou can not reach the yonder shore.
Thou are involved in lust, wrath, avarice and worldly attachment. Thine eye thou has turned away from reality.
The most impassable is the sea of mammon, Thou can not ever raise thy head above its water.
The sun remains unsoiled, the moon remains unsoiled, Similarly the God-divine remains unattached.
His nature like fire is ever detached and immaculate.
He, whose destiny awakens; His veil of doubt is removed and the order of the Guru he obeys with love.
He, whom the Guru blesses with the medicine of the agony of existences; O slave Nanak.
O man, cross thou the world-ocean in this way.
Remaining dead in life, remember thou thy sire Master and purge thou thyself of thy duality. Pause.2nd.
Maru 5th Guru.
I have given up the search abroad. The Guru has shown my Lord within my home.
I have seen the Fear-free Lord of wondrous beauty, Leaving Him my soul now goes nowhere else.
I have obtained, God, the jewel, O Him, I have obtained through the Perfect Guru.
The Name of invaluable worth, can be obtained not, The Guru has mercifully blessed me with it. Pause.
Unperceivable and Unapprehensible is the Transcendent Lord Meeting the saint-Guru, I have uttered that Unutterable one.
The celestial strain resounds in the Tenth gate, There the Name Nectar gently trickles down.
My desire is stilled. The Lord of inexhaustible treasure has entered my mind and I now feel no want.
Serving the feet, feet, the holy feet of the Guru, my unmanageable mind is managed and I am blessed with the Name-Nectar.
In peace I come, in peace I go and in peace does my mind now sport.
Says Nanak, when the Guru drives away the doubt, then does the bride attain to her Lord's mansion.
Maru5th Guru.
He who created and honoured thee; Him thou bear not love.
The ungenial seed, sown out of season; bear not fruit and flower.
O man, this is the suitable time to sow the Name-Seed.
At this opportune time one ought to sow the Name crop by attaching thy whole mind. Pause.
Renounce thou thy mind's obstinacy and doubt and enter the True Guru's sanctuary.
He alone does the virtuous deeds in whose fortune it is so writ by the Lord.
He comes to love his Lord and his service is approved.
My crop has germinated and its produce shall exhaust not ever.
I have obtained the invaluable wealth, which leaving me goes not anywhere else.
Says Nanak, I have obtained peace and am now sated and am now sated and satiated,
Maru, 5th Guru.
The egg-shell of superstition has burst and my mind is illumined.
The Guru has broken the fetters of my feet and has freed me, the captive.
My coming and going are now ended.
The heated cauldron has cooled down and the Guru has blessed me with the cooling Name. Pause.
Since I met with the society of saints, they who spy me bad intentions have left.
He who had bound me, has released me. Then, what can the Death's courier do into me now?
The Lord load of my deeds is now removed and I have become detached from the deed.
From within the sea, I have reached the shore, The Guru has done me this favour.
True is my place, true my seat and truth I have made the aim of my life
Truth is the capital and merchandise, which Nanak has put into his house.
Maru, 5th Guru.
Within his mouth, the Pandit shouts aloud the Vedas, but he is slow to act thereon.
The silent sage sits apart, but in his mind are the knots of desires.
Becoming an anchoret, he abandons and walks out of his home, but he is not saved by such flight.
To whom should I tell the state of my mind?
Where can I find such a person, who himself is emancipated and unites me with the Lord? Pause.
Becoming a penitent, he discipline his mind run's in ten directions.
the celibate practises celibacy, but within his mind is self-conceit.
Becoming a renouncer, he wanders at holies, but within him a foolhardily wrath.
In their effort to get bread, they become temple-dancers, by tying tinkling anklets to their feet.
Men fast, take vows, perform six rites and wear religious garbs for outward display.
With their mouth, people melodiously hymn songs and sermons, but their mind sings not the Lord praise.
God's saints are pure and are free from weal, woe, avarice and worldly love.
If the Auspicious Lord shows mercy, then my soul obtains the dust of the feet of those saints.
Says Nanak, when I met with my Perfect Guru, then was my mind's anxiety removed.
My God, the King, is the inner knower.
The Beloved of my soul knows everything, so I have forgotten all the idle prating. Pause Second.
Maru 5th Guru.
He, within whose mind is Thine Name, O Lord, is the King of all the lacs and million of men.
They, who are not blessed with the Name by my True Guru; they are the brutes, who continue coming and going.
My True Guru alone saves my honour.
O Lord, when Thou enter my mind, then I obtain the perfect honour. Forgetting Thee, I become dust. Pause.
As many are the mind's enjoyments of love and pleasure of the beauties, so many are the blames and sins.
God's Name is the treasure of emancipation. It is all peace and poise.
Like the shade of a cloud, the pleasure of mammon fade away in an instant.
Meeting with the Guru, they, who sing the Lord-God's praise; They become red and are dyed in the deep Divine love.
Lofty, Grand and Infinite is my Lord and beyond reach is His court.
It is through the Name, that one is blessed with glorification and magnificence. O much beloved is the Lord unto Nanak.
Maru 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The One Lord has created the creation.
He has made days, nights and everything.
The forests, grass, the three worlds, water,
the four Vedas, the four sources of creation,
the nine regions, the seven continents and all the worlds;
those have all been made from the Lord's one word.
O man, realise thou thy Creator Lord.
If thou meet with the True Guru, then alone shall thou understand Him. Pause.
The entire world is engrossed in the three modes.
It lands in hell and heaven,
in self conceit the man comes and goes.
The soul is not allowed to stay even for a moment.
Without the Guru, there is pitch darkness.
Meeting with the True Guru, one is emancipated.
As many as the deeds done in ego and pride,
so many are the chains on one's neck.
To harbour egoism and self-hood,
that is like loading one's feet with iron fetters.
He alone, who has good luck recorded on his brow,
recognises the One Lord meeting with the Guru.
He alone meets the Lord who is pleasing to His mind.
He alone is strayed, who is strayed by the Lord.
By himself one is neither ignorant nor wise.
As the Lord makes man do, so is he known.
Thou, O Lord, has no limit, this or that end,
Slave Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Maru 5th Guru.
Mammon has bewitched the mortals of three dispositions.
In avarice the false world is involved.
One amasses wealth saying "it is mine" but at the Last moment, it hoodwinks all.
The Merciful Master is Fearless and Formless.
He sustains all the sentient begins. Pause.
Gathering it, some bury it in the pit.
Some leave not money, even in dream.
he, who exercising sway makes coffers thereof; With him this unsteady wealth goes not.
Some love their wealth more than their life and body.
Some amass it, forsaking their father and mother.
Some keep it concealed from their father and mother some keep it concealed from their sons, friends and brothers, with them even it remains not.
Becoming ascetics some sit in trance.
Some are Yogis, celibates, scholars and thinkers.
Some dwell in homes, grave yards, cremation grounds and forests, Getting up, mammon clings to their skirt.
He, whose bonds are loosened by the Lord;
in his mind the Lord God's Name is enshrined.
Associating with the society of saints, God's slaves are redeemed They are emancipated and are enraptured by the Lord's grace.
Maru 5th Guru.
Meditate thou on the one immaculate Lord,
from whom no one returns empty handed.
He who cherished thee in thy mothers womb,
and embellished thee by giving you soul and body,
contemplate thou that creator every moment.
he is such, remembering whom all the demerits are covered.
Enshrine thou the Lord's lotus feet in thy mind,
and save thy soul from the water of sin.
Thine wailings and lamentations shall cease,
and thy doubt of the world and dread shall be dispelled by remembering the Lord of the world.
Rare is the mortal, who obtains the society of saints.
Unto him, Nanak is a sacrifice, a sacrifice.
The Lord's Name is the support of my soul and body.
Whosoever meditates on it, he is emancipated. Pause.
The false thing, he deems as true.
The ignorant and unwise idiot cultivates affection for it.
He is intoxicated with the wine of lust, wrath and avarice,
and loses his human life in exchange for a shell.
he abandons his own and loves another.
Inebriated with mammon, his mind ever thinks the body.
His desire is not fulfilled and be indulge in revelments.
His hope is fulfilled not and vain is all his utterance.
Man comes alone and goes alone.
False is his entire talk, with me and thee.
Ministering the intoxicating potion the Lord Himself misleads the mortal.
Nanak, the writ of past deeds can be effaced not.
Animals, birds, phantoms,
are one of the many other species of hobgoblins he (a false person) wanders into.
Wherever he goes, there he is not allowed to stay.
This placeless one arises and runs again and again.
Within his mind and body is the expanse of desires.
The poor man is cheated by his sense of self-conceit.
He has greatly sinned and is greatly punished.
The estimate of those punishments can be told not.
On account of forgetting the Lord. he is cast into the hell.
In that place, there is neither mother, nor relation, nor friend nor wife to succour him.
He, unto whom the Lord becomes merciful;
that man, O Nanak, swims across the world ocean.
Rambling and roaming about I have sought the refuge of the Lord,
who is the Master of the meek and the Father and Mother of the world.
The Merciful Master is the Destroyer of sorrow and suffering.
Whomsoever, He wills, him He emancipates.
he pulls out of the blind world-well.
It is through love-worship that one is saved.
Of himself, the Saint-Guru is the embodiment of the Lord's body.
From the great fire, the Lord himself saves the man,
By himself this mortal can practise not meditation, penance and self control.
In the beginning and the end, the Unapproachable and Unfathomable Lord alone is the Doer of everything.
Bless Thou me with Thine Name. O Lord, This gift, alone, Thy slave begs of Thee.
O Nanak my God-Lord is the Giver of the Eternal life,
Maru 5th Guru.
Why beguile ye me, O men? God, the Fascinator is merciful to me, the meek one.
Thus have I understood,
that the beneficent Guru is chivalrous to afford protection and himself saves my honour. Pause.
The Lord accepts the request of His saints and is ever, ever Peace-giving.
O Lord, show Thou mercy unto me, Thy slave, that I may contemplate only thy Name.
Humble Nanak begs for Thy Name, that purges him of duality and doubt.
Maru 5th Guru.
Very great is my Lord Master.
I am a poor salve of His.
My Bewitching Beloved is dear unto my mind and very life.
He blesses me with the bounty of His Name. Pause.
I have seen and assayed all.
Without the Lord, there is not any other.
The Lord sustains and reaches sustenance to all the sentient beings.
He was, is and shall also be.
My Lord, bless me Thou with Thine mercy,
that Nanak may remain yoked to Thy service.
Maru 5th Guru.
O Thou the Saviour and Emancipator of sinners, I am ever a sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice unto Thee.
May I meet with such a saint, In whose association I may contemplated the God's Name.
No one knows me. I am said to be a serf of Thine, O Lord.
This alone is my support and sustenance. Pause.
O Lord, Thou support and sustain all. I, a meek one, make a supplication.
Thou alone know Thine ways. Thou are the water and I the fish.
O Perfect and Extensive Lord, with Love I follow but Thee alone.
Thou alone, O Lord, are contained in all the worlds, spheres and regions.
Immovable, Imperishable, Invisible and Infinite Thou are, O my Fascinating Lord.
O Lord, bless Thou Nanak with the gift of society of saints and the dust of the feet of Thine slaves.
Maru 5th Guru.
They remain sated and satiated,
who realise the saint Guru's instruction.
Their praise can not at all be uttered,
who are blessed with the Name's glory.
My Beloved is an invaluable jewel.
Unattainable and Unweighable is His Name. Pause.
He, whose soul is pleased with the Imperishable Lord;
he, by Guru's grace, obtains the quintessence of Divine knowledge.
That person sees all, but remains merged in the Lord,
who banishes ego from his mind.
Permanent is the seat of those,
who through the Guru, realise their Lord's presence.
Meeting the Guru, they remain awake night and day,
and attach themselves to the Lord's service.
They are sated and satiated perfectly,
and are easily absorbed in the Lord's trance.
They come upon the Lord's treasure.
It is through the Guru, that they obtain it, O Nanak.
Maru 5gth Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By the Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Shed thou all thine clevernesses and meeting with the saints rid thyself of the ego.
All else is false, so utter thou The Lord's Name with thy tongue;
O my soul, hear thou the God's Name with thy ears.
Thine sins of many births shall be washed off. Then what can the poor Yama do to thee? Pause.
Pain, poverty and fear shall afflict thee not and thou shall obtain place of rest.
It is by the grace of the Guru(God) that Nanak says that the Lord's meditation is the quintessence of all gnosis.
Maru 5th Guru.
They, who forget the Name; them I have seen being reduced to dust.
The sons, friends and enjoying of wife, These affections are torn asunder.
A my soul ever, ever contemplate thou the Name.
Thus thou shall not burn in the ocean of fire and the Lord shall bless thy mind and body with peace. Pause.
Worldly revelments pass like the shade of a tree or like the clouds scattered by the wind.
Meeting with the saint, implant thou the Lord's meditation within thee, O Nanak. This alone is of avail unto thee.
Maru 5th Guru.
Peace-giving, is the Omnipresent Lord. He ever abides with thee, O mortal.
God dies not, He comes and goes and perishes not. heat and cold affect Him not.
O my soul, embrace thou love for Lord's Name.
Within thy mind, think thou of thy Lord-God, the Treasure of bliss. This alone is the immaculate way of human life. Pause.
Whosoever meditates on the kind and compassionate God; meets with success.
My Lord is ever-fresh, ever of new body, wise and beauteous. Nanak's mind is pierced through, with His Name.
Maru 5th Guru.
Deliberate thou over the Guru's instruction in the mind while walking, sitting, sleeping or when awake.
Hasten thou into the sanctuary of the Lord's feet and associate with the saints. Thus shall thou be ferried across the awful world-ocean.
O my soul, enshrine thou the Lord's Name within thy heart.
Cultivate thou affection for the Lord, attach thy mind and body of Him and forget thou all else. Pause.
The soul, mind, body and life belong to the Lord, so still thou thy self-conceit.
Contemplating the World-Lord, all thine desires shall be fulfilled and thou shall not be vanquished, ever.
Man 5th Guru.
Give-up thy self-conceit and become the dust of the feet of the saints', thus thy pain shall depart.
O Lord, he alone obtains Thy Name, whom Thou mercifully bless with it.
O my soul, drink thou the Name Nectar.
Abandon thou other paltry relishes. Thus shall thou he immortalised and live all the ages through. Pause.
Regularly utter thou the Name, enjoy the Name's bless and attune thyself to the Name.
Nanak has made one God his friend, intimate, companion and kinsman.
Maru 5th Guru.
The Lord sustains and saves the mortal in the mother's womb and heat affects him not.
The same Lord protects him here. Understand thou this through thy discriminating intellect.
O my mind, have thou the support of the Lord's Name.
Realise thou Him, who created thee. The one Lord is the cause of causes. Pause.
Remember thou the Lord within thy mind, shed thy cleverness and discard all the garbs.
Countless have been saved by ever meditating on the Lord-Master, O Nanak.
Maru 5th Guru.
He, whose Name is the Purifier of the sinners; He is the Master of the Masterless.
The Lord is the only raft in the exceedingly dreadful world-ocean. He alone attains to Him, on whose forehead such a writ is recorded.
Without the Name, many multitudes of men have been drowned.
Man remembers not God. the Doer of deed. Lending His helping Hand, the Lord saves Him. Pause.
Associating with the society of saints, utter thou the Lord's praise and the Lord's Nectar Name shall show thee the path.
O God, the Enemy of ego and the Lord of wealth, be Thou kind unto Nanak. He lives by hearing Thy gospel.
Maru Anjuli 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Union and separation is ordained by the Lord.
It is from the five elements that the puppet is made.
By the Sire Lord's command, the soul came and entered the body.
Where the fire rages as in an oven.
Where, in the pitch darkness, one lies mouth downwards;
There he remembers that Lord with every breath and the Lord rescues him.
He comes out of the mother's womb,
and forgetting his Lord, attaches his mind to the world.
He comes, goes and is made to wander in existences. In no place is he allowed to stay
The Merciful Master Himself saves the mortal.
All the sentient beings, He Himself establishes.
Acceptable is the advent of Him, O Nanak, who departs after winning his invaluable human-life.
Maru 5th Guru.
The Lord alone is the mortal's succourer. It is neither the physician, nor the well-wisher, nor his sister nor brother.
O man, meditate thou on that Supreme Lord, whose doings come to pass and who washes off the filth of sins.
Who abides in all the hearts and dwells amongst all and eternal is whose sear;
Who comes and goes not and never lives with us and perfect are whose deeds.
The Lord is the Saviour of His saints.
The Pious persons live by remembering God, the support of life.
The Lord is Omnipotent to do all the deeds. Nanak is a sacrifice unto Him.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Maru 9th Guru.
Peace-giving ever is the Lord's Name.
Meditating on which Ajamal was saved and the courtesan obtained emancipation. Pause.
Daropadi, the Princess of the King of Panchal remembered the Lord's Name in the royal court.
God, the Embodiment of mercy, removed her suffering and enhanced His own glory.
The man, who hymns the praise of God, the Treasure of compassion; Him the Lord succours.
Says Nanak, relying on this, I have come and sought the Lord's protection.
Maru 9th Guru.
What should I do now, O mother?
The whole life I have lost in sins and have not remembered my Lord ever. Pause.
When Death casts its noose round my neck; it makes me lose all my senses.
Who else, other than the Name of the Lord, can now be the man's succourer in this calamity?
The wealth, which man deems as his own, in an instant, becomes another's.
Says Nanak; this anxiety haunts man's mind, that he sang not God's praise ever.
Maru 9th Guru.
O my mother, I have not shed the ego of my mind.
I have passed my life in the intoxication of wealth and have not applied. myself to the Lord's meditation. Pause.
When Death's mace shall fall on my head, then alone shall I awake from my slumber.
But what avails it to repent at this time? I can escape not by running.
When this anxiety wells up in the man's mind, then does he come to love the Guru's feet.
When I am absorbed in the Lord's praise, then alone my life becomes profitable, O Nanak.
Maru Ashatpadis 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By true Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Too many sages have grown weary of reciting and hearing the Vedas and the Puranas.
Myriads of sectarians are tried by wandering at sixty eight places of pilgrimage.
Immaculate is the True Lord. Contemplating the one Lord, the mind is propitiated.
Thou are sublime and ages not. Though are eternal when all others pass away
He, who contemplates the Name, the Home of elixir, with love; his intensive agonies are averted. Pause.
By Gurus instruction utter and realise thou the Lord's Name. It is through the Name that thou shall be emancipated.
Perfect is the understanding of the Perfect Guru and through the Perfect Guru, the Lord is meditated upon.
God's Name is the sixty-eight holies and the destroyer of sins.
The blind, ignorant man stirs water and water he churns and seeks to find butter.
Churning curd by Guru's instruction, the treasure of the ambrosial Name is found.
The infidel beast realises not the quintessence that is contained in him.
He, who dies the death of egotism and egoism, continues to come and go, again and again.
But when man dies by Guru's word, he dies not again, a second time.
If man enshrines God, the life of the world in his mind, through Guru's instruction, he saves his entire lineage.
The Lord's Name is the true merchandise and true is its trade.
The Name is the only profit in this world, deliberate over it under the Guru's instruction.
To perform service for the love of mammon, is ever to suffer loss in this world.
True is man's association, true his seat, true his heart and home,
true his food and true his love, if he has the True Name's support.
Pondering over the true Gurbani and the True Name, he remains satiated.
Enjoying royal revelries, one is destroyed by pain and pleasure.
Assuming big Name, heinous sins cling to the mortal's neck.
Man is potent to give no gifts. Thou alone are the Beneficient Lord of everything.
Thou O Master, are Unapproachable, Imperishable and infinite.
Searching the Lord's door, by Guru's instruction, the mortal comes upon the treasure of salvation.
Nanak, by dealing in the True Name, man's union with the Lord breaks not.
Maru 1st Guru.
Loaded with sins, the ship is launched in the sea.
The shore is seen not. Neither the this end, nor the yonder one.
Oars and oarsman, one comes not upon to cross the dreadful sea water.
O father, the world is ensnared in the great noose.
Contemplating the True Name through the Guru's grace, one is emancipated. Pause.
The True Guru is the ship and True Name the oars to ferry the mortal across the world-ocean.
Where there is neither wind, nor fire, no water and nor form;
There abides the True Lord's True Name, which ferries the mortal across the aweful ocean.
By Guru's grace, they enshrine love for the True Lord, reach the yonder shore and are emancipated;
Their comings and goings end and their light unites with the Supreme Light.
By Guru's instruction, poise wells up in them and they remain merged in the True One.
If the snake be locked in a basket, its poison and mind's rage goes not.
Man obtains what is pre-destined for him, Why does he blame others?
If he hears the supreme Guru's charm, believing in the Name his soul becomes contented.
The crocodile is caught by throwing the hooked noose.
Entangled in the trap, through evil understanding he repents over and over again.
One realises not the pang of birth and death, The writ of past deeds can be erased not.
Injecting the poison or pride, the Creator has created the world, By enshrining the Name within, one is purged of the poison.
Then old age can annoy him Not; for he remains absorbed in the True Lord's love.
He alone is said to be emancipated in life, from within whom ego is stilled.
The world runs after worldly affairs and so is ensnared in the trap. The Lord's meditation, it realises not.
The foolish, ignorant apostate forgets the pang of birth and death.
They, whom the Guru saves are emancipated by contemplating the True Name.
In the cage of Divine love, parrot, the utterer, utters the Lord's praise.
It pecks at truth, quaffs Nectar and flies out but once and returns not.
Says Nanak, meeting with the Guru, the Spouse is recognised and the door of salvation is obtained.
Maru 1st Guru.
You shall overcome death when you die by Guru's word. Where can you run without slaying death?
Immortalising is the Name of Him, through whose dread, the fear flees away.
Thou alone, O Lord, destroy and save, without Thee, there is no other place to go to.
O my father, I am filthy, flimsy and without understanding.
Without the Lord's Name, no one is anything. The Perfect Guru has rendered my intellect perfect. Pause.
I am brimful with demerits and have no virtue. Without virtues how can I reach my home?
Through the Lord's Name, poise and peace well up. Without destiny, the Lord's Name's wealth is gained not.
They, within whose mind the Lord's Name abides not; They are bound down and endure hard ship.
They, who have forgotten the Name; why have they come into this world?
Here and hereafter, they obtain not peace with ashes.
The separated ones meet not with their Lord's door.
I know not, what shall befall me in the yond. My Lord, instruct Thou me, the strayed one.
I repair to the feet of him, who shows the way to the erring me.
Without the Guru, there is no other giver. His worth can be told not.
If I see my Friend, I would embrace Him then, I have sent Him the letter regarding my chastity.
Crest-fallen, I, His bride, am standing in wait for Him. It is through the Exalted Guru, that I can see Him with mine eyes.
My merciful Master by thine pleasure, Thou abide in my mind and bless me with Thy great grace.
He, who himself is wandering in hunger and thirst, what can he give and what can one ask from him?
I can think of no such other, who can bless my soul and body with perfection.
He, who has created me, takes care of me and Himself blesses me with glory.
In the village of the body, abides my Master, with child-like ever-fresh body and he stages wondrous plays.
The wise and beauteous True Lord is neither a woman, nor a man, nor a bird.
Whatever pleases Him, that alone happens. Thou, O Lord, are the lamp and Thou the fragrance.
Man hears songs and tastes relishes but vain are these revelries, which give rise to bodily ailments.
If man loves truth and tells truth, then he escapes from the sorrow of separation from his Lord.
Nanak forsakes not the Lord's Name. Whatever He wills that alone happens.
Maru 1st Guru.
Perform thou the true service of the Lord, Vain are other attachments.
The True Lord has bewitched this soul of mind and my tongue enjoys the true relish.
Without the Name, there is no other bliss, Others, bereft of the Name, Load poison and depart.
Hear Thou, O my beloved spouse, I am such a slave of Thine.
As Thou order me, so do I walk, O my true sweet beloved. Pause.
Night and day the slave is to perform Thy service, Thou are the Lord over the head of thy servant.
I have sold off my soul to the Guru's word and through the Guru's word my mind is comforted.
All honour is to the Perfect Guru, who has rid me of my mind's grief.
I am a servant and serf of the Master. What praise of His can I tell?
He, whom the Perfect Master, in His will, forgives, does the true deeds.
A sacrifice am I unto my Guru, who unites the separated ones with the Lord.
Sublime is the Guru's understanding of his obedient attendant, too, is rendered good.
Beauteous is the instruction of the true persons, and insipid the intellect of the egocentric.
My soul and body belong to Thee and thou are my Lord. Since the very beginning, truth is my only support.
In truth I sit and stand and it is truth that I eat and utter.
I enshrine truth in my mind, amass the wealth of truth and in-drink the Nectar of truth.
I utter the sublime Gurbani and Thou, O True Lord, keep me in thine true mansion.
As apostate is lazy in contemplating the Lord's Name, he is therefore lost in wilderness.
Enticed by the bait of sins which he ever pecks at, he is ensnared and he spoils his relations with the Lord.
Being attuned to his True Lord, through the Guru's grace, he is emancipated.
The Lord's slave incessantly remains pierced through with his Lord's love and affection.
Without the True Name, the soul of the false, sinful person is burnt to ashes.
Abandoning all the evil deeds, the mortal crosses the stream, embarking on the boat of truth.
They who forget the Lord's Name, have no place and seat of rest.
Forsaking his avarice, the Lord's serf attains to the Lord's Name.
If Thou forgive, then alone Thou unite the mortal with Thee, O Lord, Unto Thee, Nanak is a sacrifice.
Maru 1st Guru.
In the Guru's fear, the God's slave easily sheds his self-conceit.
Great is the greatness of the God's slave, who realises his Lord.
Meeting with his Lord, man obtains peace, whose worth can be evaluated not.
I am a serf and servant of the Master and all glory vests in the Master.
I abide in the Lord's sanctuary and am emancipated by the Guru's grace. Pause.
The performance of His most excellent service is the primal command, which the Lord has given to His slave.
The slave realises his Lord's command and ever submits to His will.
He the Monarch, himself forgives and blesses with great honour.
The Guru's word reveals that the Lord Himself is true and true are all His slaves.
He alone performs Thy service, O Lord, whom Thou direct this way.
Without the Lord's service, no one attains Him. In duality and doubt, men are ruined.
Why should we forget Him from our minds, who blesses us with gifts which increase day by day.
The soul and body, all belong to Him, It is He, who has infused breath in us.
If the Lord is merciful, then alone man serves Him and serving the True Lord, he merges in Him.
He alone is the servant, who remains dead in life and banishes from within him also the pride of so dying.
His bonds are broken, His fire of desire is quenched and he is emancipated.
Within all is the Name's treasure, but rare is the person, who obtains it by the Guru's grace.
In the servant there is no virtue. The servant is altogether virtueless.
No one is as great a giver as Thou are, O Lord. Thou alone are the Pardoner.
This is the only sublime deed, that Thy salve obeys Thine command.
In the world-ocean, the Guru is the tank of Nectar. Whatsoever one desires, that fruit he obtains from him.
Immortalising is the wealth of the Lord's Name. The Guru enshrines it in the mind and heart.
He, whom the Lord makes obey His command, obtains eternal bliss by serving the Guru.
Gold and silver are all metals, which ultimately mix with dust.
Without the Name, nothing goes with the man. The True Guru has imparted this understanding unto me.
Nanak, immaculate are they who are imbued with the Name and remain merged in the True Lord.
Maru 1st Guru.
When the order is issued and the torn letter of God is received, one can stay not here.
Bound to sins, this soul suffers massive bodily pains.
All the sins of the mumper of the Lord's door are forgiven by the grace of the Perfect Guru.
How can man stay here? One has to depart from this world. So one should realise and reflect on the Lord.
Whomsoever Thou unite, he alone unites with Thee, such is Thy primal will, O Infinite Lord. Pause.
As Thou keep me, so do I live and whatever Thou give me, that I eat.
As Thou drive me, so am I driven and within my mouth, I enshrine Thy ambrosial Name
The glories are in the Hand of my Lord. My hearty yearning is that Thou unite me with Thyself.
Why should one praise a created one, when the Lord alone does everything.
he, who created me, abides within my mind Except the Lord, I have not another.
Praise thou that True Lord and thou shall be blessed with true honour.
Involved in many domestic entanglements; the scholar attains not to the Lord's court by reading sacred texts.
The mortal abides in the society of both sins and virtues and so he is tormented by hunger and death's courier.
He, whom the Perfect Lord saves, forgets separation and fear.
They, whose honour is approved; They alone are; perfect, O my brother.
Perfect is the understanding of the Perfect Lord and true is his magnificence.
His gifts exhaust not, but the receiver grows weary of receiving them.
Searching the saline sea, one comes upon a pearl.
For some two or four days, it looks beauteous, but ultimately it is eaten up by the dust.
If the mortal serves Guru, the ocean of truth, he obtains the inexhaustible treasure of gifts.
They alone are pure, who are pleasing to my Lord. All others are smeared to my Lord. All other are smeared with filth.
When one meets with the Guru, the philosopher's stone, then alone the dirt is removed and one becomes immaculate.
Who can appraise the worth of the colour of the True jewel of the Lord's Name.
The Lord is neither obtained by wearing religious garbs nor by giving alms at holies.
The world is cheated without accepting the Lord's Name. Go and inquire from the readers of the Vedas.
Nanak, he alone prizes the Name-jewel, who is blessed with the gnosis of the Perfect Guru.
Maru 1st Guru.
Abandoning his home in excitement, an apostate is ruined by spying others homes.
He loses the status of the family man, meets not with the True Guru and is involved in the whirl-pool of evil understanding.
By wandering in foreign lands and reading sacred scriptures, he grows weary and is craving for wealth increases.
He, of perishable body, contemplates not the Name and fills his belly like a beast.
O father, such a way of life, a renouncer should live.
By Guru's instruction, he should enshrine love for Thee alone, O Lord and imbued with Thy Name remain satiated therewith. Pause.
He dissolves ochre and dyes his dress with it, Wearing this garb, He becomes a beggar.
Tearing off cloth, he makes a patched coat and puts money into his wallet.
Blind of mind, he begs house to house and instructs the world; this way, he loses his honour this wise.
He strays in doubt and reflects not on the Name and this wise loses his life in the game of gamble.
Without the Guru, his inner fire is quenched not, but he burns fires around him.
Without serving the Guru, Lord's meditation is embraced not, How can man of himself know the Lord?
Slandering others, he abides in hell. Within him is the obscure darkness of spiritual darkness.
Wandering at sixty eight holies he is ruined. How can his filth of sins be washed away?
He sifts dust, applies ashes to his body and looks for the way of wealth.
Within and without he realises not the One Lord. If some one tells the truth to him, he grows angry.
He reads religious books and with his mouth he utters falsehood.
Some shave their heads, some keep matted-locks, some wear hair-tufts and some through pride remain silent.
Some shave their heads, some keep matted-locks, some wear hair-tufts and some through pride remain silent.
But without the love of Divine knowledge, their mind wavers and wanders in ten directions,
Maddened by riches, man abandons Nectar and drinks the deadly poison.
The evil deeds are effaced not. He realises not the Lord's will and enters into the bodies of beasts.
Excessive desire wells up in the mind of the ascetic wearing a patched coat and holding a bowl in his hand.
Abandoning his own wife, he is engrossed in just and attaches his mind to another's woman.
He instructs others, but himself reflects not on the Name and attaches himself to a whore.
With poison in his mind, from without he pretends to be doubt free. so Yama humiliates him.
He alone is a renouncer, who serves the True Guru and removes his self-conceit from within him,
He asks not for clothes and food and he accepts whatever he receives without asking.
He chatters and talks not in vain, amasses the wealth of forbearance and he burns his anger with the Lord's Name.
Blessed is such a householder, a renouncer and a Yogi, who fixes his mind on God's feet.
The Sanyasi remains desireless amidst desires and is attuned to the one Lord.
If he in-drinks God's elixir and is rapt in trance in his own home, it is then that be obtains peace.
By the Guru's grace, he understands his Lord, His mind wobbles not he prohibits and restrains its wanderings.
Searching his body-home by Guru's instruction he obtains the wealth of the Lord's Name.
Imbued with the Name's meditation, Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva become sublime.
Thine light, O Lord, is in the four sources of creation, four stages of thought, firmament, the nether regions and all the creatures.
All the comforts of emancipation are in the meditation of Lord's Name and Gurbani, thus I enshrine the True Name within my mind.
Without the Name, one is released not, O Nanak, so swim thou across, embarking on the Name's true boat.
Maru 1st Guru.
The mortal comes into being from the union of the mother and father. The female's ovum and the male's sperm meet to form the body.
In the mother's womb attuned to the Lord's love. That Lord sustains him there and blesses him with the gift of safety.
How can the mortal cross the aweul world-ocean?
By the Guru's grace the immaculate Lord's Name is obtained and the unendurable load of sins is removed. Pause.
I, the sinner, have forgotten the goodness of Lord. What can I, the mad man, do now, O God?
Thou, O Lord, are the compassionate Giver over the heads of all Day and night Thou give gifts and take care of all.
Man is born in this world to obtain the four life-objects, but his soul takes abode in the house of mammon.
Impelled by hunger, he spies the way of riches and secular attachment snatches away his wealth of salvation.
By weeping and wailing he obtains not the four cardinal boons and grows weary of searching hither and thither.
He is engrossed in lust, wrath and pride and bears love to his false kinsmen.
In the house of death, he eats, enjoys, hears with his ears, sees and dresses to show off.
Without Guru's instruction, he understands not his-self and without the Lord's Name, death is averted not.
The more man strays through worldly love, ego and the practice of self-hood the more he is dispossessed of gnosis.
When he loses his body and wealth, he is overtaken by gross anxiety and in the end when dust falls on his face, he greatly regrets.
When he becomes old, his youth and body recede, phlegm chokes his throat and water flows from his eyes.
His feet fail to function and his hands begin to tremble. Even then the worshipper of mammon enshrines not the Lord-God in his mind,
His intellect fails, his black hair turn white and no one likes him to stay at home.
Forgetting the Name, such stigmas attach to the man. Death's myrmidon soundly beats him and takes him to the hell.
The writ of past births can not be erased. Thus, whom else should one blame but himself?
He ever continues coming and going. Without the Guru, vain is man's birth and death and without the Guru's instruction, he continues burning in his life.
The revelments enjoyed in glee prove ruinous and useless is the doing of evil deeds.
Forgetting the Name and attaching to avarice, the mortal loses even his principal sum and the club of the Righteous judge falls on his head.
The Guru-wards, on whom God casts His merciful glance sing the Lord's Name's praise,
They are pure, perfect and the highest of the high persons. They are the embodiment of the great Lord God in this world.
So remember thy God, reflect on the Guru's word and enshrine love for the society of holymen.
God's saints are venerable and supreme at the Lord's court. Nanak seeks the dust of feet of those saints of God.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Maru kafi 1st Guru.
The double-minded women continues coming and going, though she may have good many friends.
The separated bride has no place of rest, How can she be comforted?
My soul is imbued with the love of my Groom.
I am devoted and a sacrifice unto Thee, O my Lord. Even for an instant, behold Thou me with Thine eye of grace. Pause.
My spouse has abandoned me to my parent's home. How can I now go to my in-laws?
I am wearing demerits round my neck. Without my love, I am wasting away and grieving to death.
If I remember my love in my parent's home, I would abide in the mansion of my in-laws.
The happy brides sleep in peace and they attain to their Groom, the Treasure of virtues
Their quilts and mattress are of silk and so are the clothes of their body.
The spouse abandons the unchaste brides. Their life-night passes in grief.
Though I may taste good many relishes and wear good many dresses,
but without my groom my youth is passing away, in vain and I, the separated one, am greatly regretting.
Reflecting on the Guru's counsel, hear I the message of the True Lord.
True is the Throne of the True one and it is through the mercy of the Merciful Master that Divine love has welled up in me.
The divine applies the salve of truth to his eyes and sees God, the seer.
He, who by Guru's grace, stills his ego and pride, comes to understand and know the Lord.
My Master, Thou loves those who are like Thee. Too many are there like me.
Nanak, the Groom parts not company with those who are imbued with His true love.
Maru 1st Guru.
Neither remain stable the sisters, nor sisters-in-law nor the mothers-in-law.
But O maids, the true relationship with the Lord, established by the Guru, sunders not.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru and ever a sacrifice unto him.
I have grown weary of wandering so far without the Guru, Now the Guru has united me the union of my Spouse. Pause.
Father's sister, mother's mother, mother's sister, the wife of husband's younger brother and the wife of husband's elder brother.
They come and go, They stay not but depart like the boat-loads of passengers.
The mothers brother, his wife, brother, the father and mother remain not.
The crowds of those guests are loaded and there is a great rush at the river.
O my maids, my Husband is dyed with the true colour.
She, who lovingly remembers the True Lord, her Husband, suffers not separation from Him.
All the seasons, in which love for the True Lord is embraced, are good.
The bride, who knows her spouse, sleeps in peace, night and day.
At the ferry, cries the ferryman "O travelers, cross ye the world-ocean with haste".
I have seen the mortals ferrying across. embarking on the True Guru's ship.
Some have loaded their luggage, some have set out, and some are weighed down with their loads.
They, who have trafficked in truth, abide with their True Lord.
I am not said to be good and I see none who is bad.
Nanak, he who effaces his self-conceit, is as the True Lord.
Guru 1st Guru.
I deem no one to be wise of himself, nor do I deem any one as unwise by Himself.
Ever imbued with the Lord's love, night and day, utter I His Name.
O Father, I am unwise and am a sacrifice unto the Lord's Name.
Thou are the creator, Thou are thine that I can ferry across. Pause.
The same person is wise or ignorant. The light within is the same though differently named at different times.
The most unwise of the unwise is he, who believes not in the Name.
It is through the Guru, that one is blessed with the Name, Without the True Guru the Name is obtained not.
If through the True Guru's pleasure the Name abides in man's mind, then day and night he remains absorbed in the Lord's love.
Involved in dominion, revelry, beauty, wealth and youth, man gambles away his life.
Bound by God's order, man, becoming a dice on the world's chess-board, plays the game of dice.
The world is clever and wise, but strays in doubt. Though Pandit by Name, he is really a literate fool.
Forgetting the Name, he reads the Vedas and deluded by the poisonous riches, he writes his writings.
Without the Name, the mortal is like the crop in the saline land, the tree on the riverbank and the sprinkling of soot on the white wear.
This world is the house of desire, Whosoever enters into it, he is burnt down by pride.
Where are all the kings and their subjects? Whosoever is involved in duality, he shall be destroyed.
Says Nanak, the True Guru's instruction tells, that ever-stable is the seat of the Unseen Lord.
Maru 3rd Guru. Ashatpadi.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
He, within whose mind, the Lord enshrines his love,
is easily embellished with the True Name.
He alone knows the pain of this love. What can any one else know regarding its cure?
Of Himself, of Himself the Lord unites man in His union.
He, of Himself, informs man with His love.
He alone realises the worth of this love, on whom is Thine grace, O Lord. Pause.
He, whose spiritual vision awakens; drives away his doubt.
By Guru's grace, he obtains the supreme status.
He alone is a Yogi, who understands this way and reflects on the Guru's world.
By Good fortune, the bride meets with her Groom.
By Guru's instruction, she banishes her evil-understanding from within herself.
She becomes the beloved of her spouse and with love, ever enjoy dalliance with Him,
Without the True Guru, there is no other physician.
He himself is the Immaculate Lord.
Meeting with the True Guru, the mortal's sins are effaced and he comes to ponder on the Divine knowledge.
He, whom the Lord attaches to this sublime Name,
he by the Guru's grace is rid of his thirst and hunger.
Of his own acquiring, man can obtain not anything, It is the Lord, who mercifully blesses him with power.
The True Guru has shown me the reality of the Shastras and Vedas.
Showing mercy the Lord has come into my home.
They on whom is Thine grace, realise the Immaculate Lord in the midst of mammon.
He, who becomes the Guru-ward, obtains the quintessence,
and eradicates his self-conceit from within him.
Without the True Guru, all are engaged in the worldly affairs. Ponder thou over this in thy mind and see.
Strayed by doubt, many live in ego.
Some, by Guru's grace, silence their self-conceit.
Imbued with the True Name they remain detached. The other ignorant ones stray in doubt.
Those apostates, who obtain not the Name,
through the Guru; lose their life in vain.
Hereafter nothing helps the mortal, save the Name. This thing is realised through the Guru's word.
The Nectar-Name is ever the peace-giver.
In all the four ages, the Name is realised through the Perfect Guru.
He alone obtains the Name, whom Thou, O Lord, bless with it. This is the quintessence that Nanak has realised.
Maru 5th Guru. Ashatpadis.
There is but one God. By True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Rambling and roaming through eighty-four lacs of existences, thou has now obtained the invaluable human-life.
O fool, thou are clinging to the paltry relishes.
The Nectar-Name abides with thee and thou are engrossed in sin. Pause.
Thou has come to deal in rubies and jewels, but instead thou has loaded the nitre of sins.
Thou remember not the home, wherein thou has to abide and live.
Even for an instance, thou sing not the praises of the ever-stable, indestructible and bliss-giving Lord.
Thou has forgotten the place, where thou has to go and thou has not attached thy mind with the Lord even for a moment.
Seeing thine sons, wife, home and goods, thou are entangled in them.
One does the deeds as one is driven as per your direction.
When God become merciful, then does slave Nanak attain to the society of saints and meditates on his Lord.
Maru 5th Guru.
Extending His mercy, the Lord has protected me and I have obtained the society of the saints.
My tongue lovingly, utters God's Name, How sweet and profound is my lover for my Lord.
Thou, O Lord, are the support of my mind.
O the Searcher of hearts, I deem Thee my friend, intimate, comrade and kinsman. Pause.
I have sought the refuge of the Lord, who has created the world ocean,
By Guru's grace, I contemplate on my Lord, and the Death's courier says nothing to me.
Emancipation and salvation stand at the door of that saint, in whose mind is the treasure of Name.
The All-wise Lord shows us the way of life and is ever our saviour.
He, within whose mind the Lord abides; His pain, agony and trouble are eradicated.
Death, hell, agonising abodes and sins touch him not.
Such is the Lord, who possesses the nine treasures of wealth, supernatural powers and streams of Nectar.
Lofty, Unapproachable, Unfathomable and Perfect is the Lord in the beginning, the middle and the end.
Recite Him, the men of miracles, strivers, gods, silent sages and the Vedas.
Meditating on the Lord, who has no limit, this and that end one enjoys peace and poise.
Remembering the Fortunate Lord in the mind, many sins are effaced in an instant.
He is rendered purest of the pure and is blessed with the merit of millions of alms-giving and ablutions.
The Lord is the power, intellect, understanding, life, wealth and all of His saints.
O Lord, Nanak's prayer is, that, in his mind, he forgets Thee not even for an instant.
Maru 5th Guru.
With the sharp weapon, man cuts down the tree and it feels not enraged in its mind.
It serves his purpose and blames him not even to the extent of a sesame.
O my soul, ever, ever utter Thou the Lord's Name.
Hear thou the department of the saints. Ever meditate they on the compassionate and merciful Lord, Master. Pause.
Trampling it under his feet, man sits in the boat and is rid of his bodily fatigue.
The great ocean infects him not and in a moment he lands on the yonder shore.
Sandal, aloe, camphor-paste; the earth loves them not.
In its mind it hates him not, who digs it bit by bit or dumps ordure and urine on it.
The peace-giving canopy of the sky is evenly stretching over all, be those high, low, bad or good.
Friend and foe it knows not, and all the beings are alike to it.
The sun rises and sheds dazzling light, wherewith darkness is dispelled.
Touching the pure and the impure, the sun's rays feel not mental pain.
The cool and fragrant wind gently brushes all the places alike.
Wheresoever anything it, there it touches it and hesitates not even a bit.
Good or bad, whosoever draws near fire, his cold is dispelled.
Its own or that of another, it knows not and ever maintains the same disposition.
Whosoever seeks the refuge of the feet of the sublime Lord, soul of his is imbued with the love of his Beloved.
Signing ever the praise of the World-Cherisher, O Nanak, the Master becomes merciful.
Maru 5th Guru. Ashatpadis.
There is but one God, by True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Light, Light, auspicious is the Sire Lord's light, in the mind's courtyard.
Meditation, meditation, sublime is the meditation of the Lord Master's Name.
Of all the renunciations, the excellent renunciation is the renunciation is the renunciation of lust, wrath and avarice.
Of all the prayers, the best prayer is to pray to the Guru for the grant of God's praise.
Of all vigils, the sublime vigil is the vigil spent in singing God's praise.
Of all attachment, the excellent attachment is the attachment of the mind to the Guru's feet.
He alone is blessed with this way of life, on whose forehead good destiny is recorded.
Says Nanak, he who enters the Lord's sanctuary, finds everything, that is good.
Maru 5th Guru.
Come thou, O saint, come into my home, so that I may hear the Lord's praise with mine ears. Pause.
With thy arrival, my soul and body reverdured and I hymn the Lord's praise with thee.
By saints, grace, God abides in the mind and one is purged of duality.
Through saints kindness, intellect is illumined and evil understanding and pain are eradicated.
Seeing His vision, the mortal is sanctified and enters not the womb again.
Whosoever is pleasing to Thee is blessed with nine treasures of wealth and perfection.
Without the saint I have no other refuge, I can think of no other place to go to.
No one provides shelter to me, the virtueless one. It is through the society of saints that I am merged in God.
Says Nanak, the Guru has shown me such a miracle that within my very mind I now enjoy my Lord God.
Maru 5th Guru.
Fruitful is the life of him, who hears of his Lord and remembers and contemplates Him and thus lives eternally. Pause.
The real drink is that by which the soul is satiated and through which one in-drinks the immortalising Name-nectar.
The real food is that, wherewith man feels not hungry again and ever remains content and satiated.
The true wear is that, which saves man's honour before the Lord and he becomes not naked again.
Enjoyment is that which, absorbed in the saints, man enjoys within his mind by in-drinking the Lord's elixir.
Without bringing the thread and needle to sew the soul with the Lord's devotional, is the real sewing.
Whosoever is intoxicated and imbued with the God's Nectar; He becomes to miserable, ever again.
He, whom the Merciful Master gives, is blessed with all the treasures.
Peace is in the service of the saints, O Nanak, I quaff the wash of the saints 'feet.
Maru 5th Guru Anjulis.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
He, who has much wealth in his home, is worn by care.
and who has little wealth, wanders about in search of it.
He alone is found to be in peace, who is free from both the states.
The house-holders, kings, renouncers and the wrathful ones (being involved in mammon) fall into the hell,
inspite of reciting and scrutinizing all the Vedas in various ways,.
Whosoever living in the Body remains detached; Perfect is that man's service.
Thou awake, man is really slumbering and is being ruined in doubt.
Without the Guru, emancipation is obtained not, O Friend.
In the society of the saints, the bonds of ego are loosened and one sees the only one Lord.
If mortal does deeds then he is bound and if he does not, then is he slandered.
Inebriated with the worldly love, man is infested with anxiety.
He, who by Guru's grace deems weal and woe alike, beholds the Lord in all the hearts.
Within the world, the mortal is engrossed in doubt,
and realises not the Incomprehensible Lord, Ineffable is whose discourse.
He, whom the Lord instructs, understands Him. Him the Lord cherishes like His child.
If man abandons mammon, then he can abandon it not.
If he amasses it, then the fear of losing it haunts his mind.
He, whose honour the Lord protects in the midst of this mammon, is a saint and over the head of such a saint, I wave the fly-brush.
He alone is a warrior who remains dead in life.
He, who runs away, wanders in existences.
Whatever the Lord does, accept thou that as good and realising His will, burn thou thy evil intellect.
Whithersoever Thou yoke man, thither he is yoked.
Creating His creation, the Creator sees His beggars.
Thou are the bliss-giving Perfect Lord of Nanak. If Thou bless me, then alone I meditate on Thy Name.
Maru 5th Guru.
Under the tree of the world, all the beings have gathered together.
Some are hot-tempered and some speak with sweet voice.
When the sun rises at the end of night, they get up and march off, when their life ends.
They who commit sins, are assuredly plundered.
Azrail the mymidon of death, seizes and tortures them to death.
They are cast into hell by the creator and the Righteous judge calls them to account.
No brother or sister accompanies them.
Leaving behind their property, youth and wealth they march off.
They know not their kind and Beneficent Creator Lord and shall be pressed like the basketful of sesame.
Happily, happily snatches thou other's goods,
but God who is with thee, sees and hears thee.
Through worldly avarice, thou has fallen into a pit and know not the thing of the future.
Thou shall be repeatedly born and die and be born again.
thou shall suffer much punishment on thy way to the distant country.
The blind mortal knows not Him who made him, wherefore he shall suffer pain,
Forgetting his Creator, man is ruined.
The play of the world is bad The mortal is sometimes sad and sometimes happy.
To learn from him the lesson of faith and contentment, the mortal meets not the saint and wanders as it pleases him.
Of Himself, the Lord stages the whole play.
Some He takes out and some he casts into the waves.
As God makes men dance, so do they dance; everyone passes life according to their past deeds.
If the Lord shows His grace, then alone meditate I upon the Lord.
Associating with the saints, one falls not into hell.
O Lord, bless Thou Nanak, with the gift of Thine Nectar-Name, He ever sings the songs of Thine praise.
Maru Solhas, 1st Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
He, the True Lord, alone is true. There is not any other.
He, who created the world, shall ultimately destroy it.
As it pleases Thee to keep me, so do I live, O my Lord, what excuse can I make before Thee?
Thou Thyself create and Thyself destroy.
Thou, of Thyself, put everyone to task.
Thou Thyself are the Reflector and the Benefactor and Thee put one on Thy path.
Thou Thyself are wise and Thyself omniscient.
Thou Thyself created the universe and then enjoy Thy creation.
Thou Thyself are air, water and fire and Thyself unites one in Thine union.
Thou Thyself are the moon, the sun and the most Perfect of the perfect.
Thou Thyself are gnosis, meditation and the valiant Guru.
The Yama and his noose of death can touch him not, who is attuned to Thee, O True, Lord.
Thou Thyself are the male and Thy self the female.
Thou Thyself are the chess-board and Thyself the chess-man.
Thou Thyself has set the world arena to play and Thyself appraise the players.
Thou Thyself are the bumble-bee, flower, fruit and tree.
Thou Thyself are water, desert, ocean and tank.
Thou Thyself are the big fish, tortoise and the Cause of causes. Thine from can be known not.
Thou Thyself are the day and Thyself he night.
Thou Thyself are pleased with the Guru's word.
From the very beginning and the beginning of ages, Thou are ever Imperishable, Thine will, O Lord resounds in every heart.
Thou Thyself are the peerless and peerless jewel.
Thou thyself are the Assayer and the Perfect Weigher.
Assaying some, He Himself pardons them and Himself gives and resumes His bounties, O brother.
He Himself is the bow and Himself the Bowman.
He Himself is Omniscient beauteous and wise.
He alone is the Utterer, Orator, and the Hearer, He Himself has made the entire make.
The air is deemed to be the Guru, water the father,
and the earth our mother, whose belly gives us all the things we need.
Night and day are the two female and male nurses, Made to play thus the world plays in their lap.
Thou Thyself are the fish and Thyself the grazer.
Thou Thyself are the cows and Thyself the grazer.
Thine Light pervades all the beings of the world, who walk as is Thy will, O Lord.
Thou Thyself are the Yogi and Thyself the enjoyer,
Thou Thyself are the Reveller and the great Uniter.
Thou Thyself are without speech, without form, without fear and wrapt in trance.
All sources of creation and speech are contained in Thee, O Lord.
All that seems, is subject to coming and going.
They are the bankers and the true traders, whom the True Guru has imparted understanding.
The perfect True Guru preaches and instructs the mortal.
The True Lord is brimful with all the might.
Ever Unseizable and Independent is my Lord, He has not even an iota of avarice.
Birth and death end for him,
who within his mind enjoys the Name's celestial elixir.
The Lord Himself blesses him with salvation, satiation and bounties to whose mind the Lord's love-worship is sweet.
The Lord Himself is Immaculate and His comprehension is obtained from the Guru.
Whatsoever is seen shall merge in Thee in the end.
Lowly Nanak asks for alms at thine door. Bless thou him with the greatness of Thy Name.
Maru 1st Guru.
God Himself is the earth the ox and the firmament.
The True Lord Himself makes manifest His virtues.
He Himself is the celibate and the man of chastity and contentment and Himself does all the deeds.
He, who has created the universe, sees what he has created and fashioned.
None can erase the True Lord's writ.
He Himself is the Doer and Himself the Cause and Himself blesses with greatness.
The five thieves make the mercurial mind wabble,
The mind spies other homes and searches not its own home,
Without the Name man loses honour and his body village crumbles into dust heap.
He, who relishes the Lord through the Guru, sees Him in the three worlds.
Stilling his desire he grapples with his mind,
They who serve Thee become like Thee, Thou, O Fearless Lord are their Friend since their infancy.
Thou Thyself are the paradise, this world and the nether region.
Thou Thyself are ever-young and the embodiment of light,
Thou has no features or shape, even if Thou appear to be of dreadful shape with unshorn hair tresses.
The Vedas and Semitic texts know not the Lord's mystery.
He has no mother, father, son and brother.
Creating the mountains, He razes them all to the ground. The Unseeable Lord can be seen not.
I have grown weary of making friends with many.
No one rids me of my sins.
The Master is the Supreme Lord of all the Supreme Lord of all the gods and men, Blessed with His love, the mortal's fear is dispelled.
The straying and erring ones He puts on the path.
Thou Thyself put them astray and Thou Thyself instruct them (on the right path).
It is through the Name that one is emancipated and knows the Lord's way; I see nothing else that can achieve this (emancipation).
The Ganges, Jamna, Bindraban, Kidarnath,
Banaras, Mathura, Puri, Dwarka,
Ganga Sagar, Tirbeni, the confluence of the Ganges, Jamna and Saraswati and the sixty-eight holies; They are all merged in the Lord's Being.
He Himself is the adept, seeker and the man of contemplation.
He Himself is the King and the cabinet.
The Judicious Lord Himself sits on the throne. Remembering Him. doubt, differentiation with Him and fear depart.
He Himself is the Judge and Himself the Scholar.
He Himself is Infallible and strays not ever.
He Himself is the Donor of grace, compassion and honour and is the enemy of none.
He, whom He forgives; him He blesses with glory.
He is the Giver of all and has not even an iota of avarice.
The Fully-pervading Immaculate Lord is supporting the sentient being in all the unmanifest and manifest places.
How can I praise the Inaccessible and Infinite Lord?
He, the True Creator, is the enemy of ego.
He on whom is His grace, him He unites with Himself, He alone meets Him, who meets with the saints society.
Standing at His door are Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva,
and serve they Him, their Unseeable and Infinite Lord.
Millions of others are seen bewailing at His door, I can know not their number.
True is His praise and true His speech.
In Vedas and Puranas, I see not another.
Truth is my capital, the praise of the True Lord sing I and no other support do I have.
In every age, He the True One, is and shall also be,
who has not died and who shall die not.
Poor Nanak makes a supplication, Enshrining love for the Lord and see thou Him within thyself.
Maru 1st Guru.
Through duality and mal-intellect, the bride is gone blind and deaf.
She wears the perishable jacket of lust and wrath.
The Lord, her spouse, is within her home, but the ignorant bride knows Him not Without her Husband she can obtain not sleep.
Within her burns the fire with great blaze.
The perverse bride looks about in the four directions,
Without serving the True Guru, how can she obtains peace? The glory is in the hands of the True Lord.
If she banishes her lust, wrath and self-conceit,
slays the five thieves through the Lord's Name,
and armed with the sword of gnosis, grapples with her mind, then her desire is nipped within her very mind.
From the mingling of the mother's ovary and father's sperm,
the Lord has created the from of infinite beauty.
The light or blessing, that there is, they are all Thine, Thou, O Creator, are contained in all the places.
Thou alone has made birth and death.
Why should he fear, who obtains such an understanding from the Guru?
When Thou, O Merciful Master glance with grace, then sorrow and suffering leave one's body.
He, who sits in his own home eats upon his fear.
He stills and silences his wandering mind.
In the brimful and green tank of his heart lotus blooms and the Omnipresent Lord becomes his succourer.
With death writ on their brow the mortals come into this world.
How can they stay here, They have to walk into the yonder world.
True is the Lord's command and the true ones abide in His Imperishable city, Meeting with them, He, the True Lord blesses them with glory.
He Himself has created the whole world.
He who has made it; he, alone, assigns tasks to it.
Superior to the True Lord, I see not another, The True Lord alone appraises the mortals
Man only stays four days (short time) in this pasture-land,
and he revels and sports in utter darkness.
Like mumbling in the night's dream, the jugglers have left the world, after staging their play.
They alone are blessed with glory in the Lord's court,
who enshrine love for Him and in whose mind, the Fearless Lord abides.
In the continents, solar systems, nether regions, spheres and the three worlds, the Lord is sitting in trance.
True is the body village and true the heart-throne of those,
who meeting with the True Lord. through the Guru's grace, obtain bliss.
Through the True Name, man is blessed with honour from the True Throne and effaced stand his ego and counting of deeds stand his ego and counting of deeds.
By entering into accounts the soul is involved in anxiety.
Through duality and three dispositions, how can one attain peace?
Blotless and immaculate is the Beneficent Lord alone. It is through the perfect Guru, that honour is obtained.
In every age, rare is the one, who realises the Lord by the Guru's.
His soul remains imbued with the True Lord who is pervading all.
Seeking His protection, man is blessed with peace and no filth remains attached to his soul and body.
He, whose tongue is imbued with the True Lord, the Home of Nectar,
abides with his Lord-God and is purged of dread and doubt.
Hearing the Guru's word, his ears are satiated and his light blends with the Supreme Light.
Very carefully place I may foot on the ground.
Wheresoever I am, I look to Thine refuge.
Whether thou bless me with woe or weal, Thou are sweet unto my mind, with Thee, O my Lord, I have immense attachment.
No one is man's succourer at the last moment.
So, realising Thee by Guru's grace, I praise Thee.
Imbued with the Lord's Name, I have become detached and now, in my own home, sit in trance,
Maru 1st Guru.
O my infinite and Unequalled Lord, Thou are from the very beginning and the beginning of ages.
O Primordial and immaculate Lord, Thou are my Beloved Spouse.
I reflect on the way to unite with the True One, and fix I my attention in the True one,
For many ages there was pitch darkness,
and the Creator-Lord sat in trance.
Then there were only Thy True Name, Thy True glory and the greatness of Thy True throne.
In the True age, truth and contentment permeated the human bodies.
In truth and Thee, O Deep and Unfathomable True Lord, the mortals then remained absorbed.
The True Lord assays the mortals on the touchstone of truth and issues True commands.
True and content is my Perfect True Guru.
He alone is a hero, who believes in the Guru's word.
He, who submits to the command of the commandant obtains true seat in the True Court.
In the Gold-age every one spoke the truth,
and he alone was deemed to be true who practised truth.
The mortals had truth in their mind and mouth and truth being their friend, by the Guru's grace, they were rid of doubt and dread.
In the Silver-age, one potency of faith was lost.
Three feet remained and through duality the fourth feet was shorn off.
He who got resigned to Guru's will, uttered the True Name and the way-ward one was wasted away, in vain.
An apostate succeeds not ever in the Lord's court.
Without the Name, how can the soul be pleased?
Bound by deeds, men come and bound by deeds they go. They know and understand but nothing.
In the Brass-age, compassion in men was halved.
Some rare one contemplated the Lord by Guru's grace.
The faith which upholds uphold and supports the earth became two footed and then too, the True Lord was obtained by Guru's grace.
The kings did good deeds for some self-interest.
Tied to some hope, they gave, in charity.
Without the Lord's Name, they could be emancipated not, though they grew weary of performing other deeds.
Practising religious rituals, they sought salvation,
but the wealth of salvation is attained to by praising the Lord.
Without the Guru's word, man is emancipated not. Practicing hypocrisy, he wanders in species.
One can abandon not mammon's love.
They alone are released, who do virtuous deeds.
Day and night, the men of meditation remain imbued with the Lord's service and this-wise please they, their Lord.
Some there are, who practise recitation and penance and bathe at holies.
Thou make them walk a path as Thou will.
Through obstinate rituals, the inconvincible soul is pleased not. Without the Guru-God, who has ever obtained honour?
In the Iron-age, only one potency remained.
Without the Perfect Guru, none has described it.
The apostates stage the show of falsehood. Without the True Guru, their doubt departs not.
The True Guru, of himself, is the care-free Creator Lord.
He has neither the fear of death nor dependence on men.
He, who serves him becomes immortalised and him, the death tortures not.
Within the Guru, the Creator has placed His ownself.
By Guru's grace, countless millions are saved.
God, the life of the world, is the Giver of all the beings. The Fearless Lord has no filth.
Everyone ask for alms from the Guru, the Lord's treasurer.
The Guru Himself is the Immaculate, Inscrutable and Infinite Lord.
Nanak tells the truth, that he begs from the Lord alone. O Lord of the will, bless Thou me with Thy True Name.
Maru 1st Guru.
They who are united with His Name; Them the True Lord blends with Himself.
When it pleases Him, one is absorbed in equipoise.
The Lord's Light pervades the three worlds. There is not any other but He, O brother.
I serve Him whose servant I am.
The Unseeable and Inscrutable Lord is propitiated through the Guru's word.
The Creator is the Benefactor of His saints. He forgives them. Such is His greatness.
The True Lord ever gives and His bounties exhaust not.
The false ones receive and deny their receipt.
They know not their origin, are not pleased with truth and stray in duality and doubt.
The Guru-wards keep awake day and night.
Through the Guru's instruction, they realise the worth of the True Lord's love.
The egocentrics remain asleep and they are plundered. The Lord conscious beings remain safe and sound, O brother.
The false one comes, the false one goes,
and imbued with falsehood, she practises falsehood.
They, who are blessed with the Name, by the Guru's grace, are robed in the Lord's court and their attention remains absorbed in him.
The false one is cheated and plundered by the cheats.
Her Divine garden is laid waste like a wilderness.
Without the Name, Nothing tastes sweet. Forgetting the Lord, one suffers great sorrow.
Obtaining the diet of truth, one is satiated.
True is grandeur of the Name-jewel.
He, who understands himself, realises the Lord and his light blends with the Supreme Light.
Straying from the path of the Lord's Name, she bears blows.
Through excessive cleverness, her doubt is dispelled not.
The unmindful bride remembers not her Lord, carries the very heavy Load of sins and rots and putrefies to death.
There is none, who is free from contention and strife.
If Thou show me one, who has not these; I shall eulogise him.
By dedication his soul and body to God, the Life of the World, man makes up and meets with Him.
None knows the state and extent of the Lord.
Whosoever calls himself great, his greatness eats him.
There is no dearth of the True Lord's bounties, it is He, who has created all.
Great is the greatness of the Independent Lord.
Himself creating all, he reaches them sustenance.
The Beneficent, Merciful Master is not far. If such be His will, He, of Himself, naturally meets His slave.
Some are woe-begun and some are afflicted by disease,
Whatever He does, He does that all by Himself.
Through the Lord's love-worship and the perfect instruction of the Guru, celestial strain is realised.
Some ramble and roam about hungry and naked.
Some perish through obstinacy and know not the Lord's worth.
They know not the quintessence of good and bad, through the practice of the Name, this truth is revealed.
Some bathe at holies and eat not corn.
Some there are, who burn fire and torment their body.
Salvation is not obtained without the Lord's Name, in what other way can one reach across?
He leaves off the Guru's path and wanders in wilderness.
The way-ward apostate contemplates not his Lord.
He practises falsehood and is destroyed and drowned, as death is the enemy of falsehood.
In the Lord's will man comes and in the Lord's will he goes.
He, who realises the will, merges in the True Lord.
O Nanak, such a person loves the True One, performs His service through the Guru and ultimately meet with Him.
Maru 1st Guru.
God Himself is the Creator Lord,
who of Himself creating the creatures assays them.
He Himself is the True Guru, Himself the attendant and of Himself creates the world.
He Himself is near, not far.
Perfect are the persons, who understand this; by Guru's grace.
There is profit in associating with them day and night. This is the glory of the Guru's association.
Sublime are Thine saints in every age, O Lord.
With their tongue, happily sing they the Lord's praise.
They utter the Lord's praise, are rid of pain and poverty and fear not anyone.
They remain awake and are not seen asleep.
By serving up truth they save their associates and lineage.
They have not the filth of sin, they are immaculate and ever remain absorbed in the Lord's devotion and love.
O God's saints! understand ye the True Guru's word;
this youth, breath and body, age and waste away.
O mortal, thou shall die today or tomorrow. Utter thou the Lord's Name and meditate on it in thy mind.
O mortal, eschew thou falsehood and idle talk.
Death flays and kills the false one.
The mammon worshipper is ruined through falsehood and mental pride and putrefies in the way of duality.
Abandon thou slander and jealousy of others.
By reading and perusing, men burn in pride and obtain not peace.
Meeting the Society of saints, praise thou the Name and Pervading God shall be thy Helper.
Renounce thou lust, wrath and wickedness.
Renounce thou also involvement in the deeds of pride.
If thou repair to the True Guru's refuge, then alone shall thou be saved. This wise, O brother, the dreadful world-ocean is crossed.
Hereafter one has to cross the river of all fire with poisonous flame.
None else shall be there. The soul shall be all alone.
The ocean of fire emits virulently hissing waves. The perverse persons fall therein and are burnt down.
Salvation is with the Guru, He gives its gift in his will.
He alone knows the way to it, who meets with the Guru.
O brother, ask thou him, who has been blessed with such a gift. Peace is procured by performing the True Guru's service.
Without the Guru, one dies entangled in sins.
The Death's courier strikes him on his head and humiliates him.
The slanderous person is not freed of his bonds and is drowned to death in slandering others.
Utter thou the truth and realise the Lord within.
He is not far off. See thou Him by casting a glance.
Embarking on the supreme Guru's boat, cross thou over and no obstacle shall befall thee, Thus is the dreadful world-ocean ferried across.
Within the body abides the Lord's Name.
Of Himself, the Creator-Lord is Imperishable.
The soul dies not, nor can it be slain. The Lord creates and cares for all. Through the Name is realised His will.
He is immaculate and in Him there in no darkness.
He, the True Lord, Himself sits on the Throne.
The false mammon-worshipper are bound and made to wander in existences. They die, are reborn and continue coming and going
The Guru's slaves are the beloveds of the True Guru.
They meditate on that Lord and sit on the throne.
They obtain the Lord's quintessence and know the state of their inner-self; such is the True glory of those who join the society of the saints.
God's slave saves himself and saves his ancestors as well.
His associates are emancipated and them he ferries across.
Nanak is the serf and slave of him, who by the Guru's grace, enshrines love for the Lord.
Maru 1st Guru.
For good many ages there was all-darkness,
and the Infinite and lllimitable Lord was seated in trance,
The Lord sat all alone in inky darkness and the world of strife was not in existence then.
This way, He passed the thirty-six ages.
As is His will, so He directs everything.
No rival of His see I. He Himself is Infinite and Boundless.
Understand thou that the Lord is discernibly pervading the four ages.
In all the hearts and the belly is He contained.
All alone the Lord is pervading all the ages. Some rare one understands this through the Guru's counsel.
From the union of sperm and ovum, God has created the body.
Uniting the air, water and fire, the mortal is made.
Himself He sports in the body joy mansion. All else is the extension of the love of mammon.
With head down wards, in the mother's round belly, the mortal was wrapt in the Lord.
God, the Searcher of hearts, Himself knows everything.
Within the mother's belly, with every breath man remembered the True Name in his mind.
He came into the world to obtain the four cardinal boons,
and obtained an abode in the house of the Lord's mammon.
When he forgets the One Lord, then loses he the game, The blind man abandons the Name.
The child dies amidst his child-like frolics.
They wail saying and crying that he was a playful child.
He, to whom he belonged, has taken him away, The weeper is in the wrong.
What can one do, were he to die in the hey-day of his youth,
now that he wails, calling him-mine, mine?
In his world, accursed is the life of those, who come to grief by wailing for the sake of wealth.
The back hair, ultimately turn grey.
Without the Name, one departs losing his capital.
The evil-intellect blind man is utterly ruined and being robbed wails and cries.
He, who understands his ownself, weeps not.
When man meets with the True Guru, then he obtains the real understanding,
Without the Guru, the adamantine door opens not, obtaining the Lord's Name, one is emancipated.
When man grows old, his body is beaten out of shape,
even then he remembers not the Lord, his Friend, in the end.
He, who forgets the Name departs black-faced. The false one is humiliated in the Lord's court.
The false one departs forgetting the Name.
Coming and going dust, falls on his head.
She, who worries her head in duality here, in her parent's home, finds no abode hereafter, in her Father-in-law's.
Man eats, wears and revels in joy,
but without the Lord's hearty service, he cries in vain.
Yama strikes him, who discriminates not between good and evil, what can be the way out of it?
If man knows what he is to possess or abandon,
then associating with the Guru. he realises the Lord in his very home.
Unto the True One, truth seems sublime, He calls no one bad. This is his way of life.
Without truth, none succeeds in the Lord's court.
Through the True Name, one is robed and honoured in the True court,
Whosoever silences his ego and self-conceit, become pleasing to that Lord, and He of Himself forgives him.
He, who by Guru's grace knows the Lord's will,
comes to realise the way of life of all the ages.
O Nanak, utter thou the name, which is a boat to cross. This wise, the True Saviour saves the mortal.
Maru 1st Guru.
I have no friend like the Lord,
who has blessed me with body and soul and has infused into me understanding.
He cherishes and watches over all the beings. He, the wise and Omniscient Lord, abides within all.
The Guru is the tank of Nectar and I am his beloved swan.
In the Guru-ocean are many jewels and rubies.
God's praises are pearls, gems and diamonds. Hymning them, my soul and body are drenched with the Lord's love.
My Lord is Inaccessible, Incomprehensible, Unfathomable and Detached.
The limit of True Guru-God can be found not.
Through the True Guru's instruction, the Saviour Lord saves the mortals and blends with Himself those, who are merged in his love.
Without the True Guru, how can there be emancipation?
The Guru is the friend of the Lord, who is since the very commencement and the beginning of ages.
The Lord, mercifully pardons the sins, committed by man, and emancipates him in His court.
It is through Sat-Guru, the Giver, that man is emancipated,
is rid of all the diseases and is blessed with the Immortalising Name-Nectar.
Death, the tax-gatherer charges no tax from him whose inner-fire is quenched and whose bosom is cool.
The body has developed great love for the soul.
He is wandering male and she a beauteous woman.
Day and Night he enjoys her with love and dalliance and arising and departing, he consults her not.
Creating the world, the Lord is pervading it.
He roars in the wind, water and fire.
Associating with evil passions, the mind wavers and obtains the fruit of what he does.
Forgetting the Name, one endures miser of evil ways.
When the order to depart is issued, how can one stay here.
He plunges into the well of hell and suffers like the fish, out of water.
The mammon-worshipper passes through eighty-four lakh species of hell.
As he does, so shall he suffer.
Without the True Guru, there is no emancipation. Bound and seized by deeds, one becomes helpless.
Very narrow, like the sharp edge of a sword, is the way to the yonder world.
Man's account shall be called and he shall be pressed like sesame.
The mother, father, wife and son shall befriend him not. With out the Lord's love one is emancipated not.
Man may have good many friends and comrades in the world,
but without the Guru-God, none is his saviour.
The Guru's service is the way to salvation and through it, night and day, one sings the Lord's praise.
Abandon thou falsehood, pursue truth,
and thou shall obtain the desired fruit.
Few are the traders of the true merchandise. They who traffic in it, obtain the profit.
Depart thou with the stock-in-trade of the Lord-God's Name,
and thou shall easily obtain the Lord's sight in His mansion.
By the Guru's grace, the perfect persons search and find their Lord. Thus they see Him, who looks upon all alike.
Infinite is the Lord. A few obtain Him by Guru's instruction.
Through the Guru-given Name, they instruct their mind.
Accept thou as perfectly true the word of the True Guru, This wise thou shall merge in the All-pervading soul.
Narad and Saraswati are Thy servants.
The highest of the high in three worlds, too, are Thine servants.
My Lord, within all is Thy power. Thou are the Beneficent Lord of all and Thou alone has made the whole world.
Some, who serve Thee at Thy gate, dispel their sufferings.
They are robed in the Lord's court and are emancipated by the True Guru.
The True Guru breaks the bonds of pride and restrains the mercurial mind.
Meet thou the True Guru and look for the way,
by which thou may obtain thy Lord and may have no account against thee.
Efface thou thy ego and perform thou the Guru's service. This wise, O slave Nanak, thou shall be imbued with the Lord's Love.
Maru 1st Guru.
My Lord is the Destroyer of demons.
My Beloved Lord pervades all the hearts.
Though ever with us, the Unseeable Lord is not at all seen. By dwelling upon the writ of the Supreme Guru, He is known.
He alone is the pious saint of Thine, O Lord, who seeks Thy refuge.
Showing His mercy, the Lord ferries him across.
The Great True Guru, ferries one across the very deep ocean, brimful with fiery water.
The blind apostate has no under standing.
He comes, goes and repeatedly dies and departs.
The recorded writ of the past is erases not and the blind man is distressed at the death's door.
Some there are who come and go and obtain not abode in their own home.
Bound to past deeds, they commit sins.
The blind ones have no knowledge and understanding. They are deprived of avarice and ego.
Of what avail is the embellishment of the bride;
who forsaking her own spouse, is in love with another's husband.
As none knows, who is the father of the courtesan's son, so vain and useless are the deeds of the one without a Guru.
There are many demerits (afflictions) in the body cage of the mind's ghost.
Through the darkness of spiritual ignorance the mortals putrefy in hell.
Whosoever forgets the Lord's name; has to pay up to the Lord Justiciar the balance and his deeds.
Within him blazes the scorching sun of desire, with poisonous flames.
He, the egocentric, is without honour, a beat and a demon.
Involved in hope and desire, he practises falsehood and is afflicted with the bad disease of vice.
He is carrying on his forehead and head the heavy Load of the nitre of sins.
How can he cross the terrible world-ocean?
Since the ancient times, the True Guru is the ship who through the Lord's Name ferries men across.
Sweet is the love of sons and wife in the world.
The entire world is the expanse of the love of mammon.
If the Lord conscious being reflects upon the quintessence, the True Guru snaps his noose of death.
When one a defrauded by falsehood, one goes astray,
even when well educated, a self willed person burns in fire.
The Guru is the great giver of the Name-Nectar, Uttering the Name, sublime bliss is attained.
In his mercy, the True Guru implants the True Name in the man's mind,
effaces all his sufferings and puts him on the right path.
Even a thorn not ever pierce into the foot of him, whose saviour is the True Guru.
When the body perishes, the dust mixes with dust.
The egocentric is like the stone. slate, which takes-in no water.
He wails and weeps much and sometimes enters into hell and sometimes into paradise.
The Mortals abide with the poisonous serpent of riches.
This duality has ruined many homes.
Without the True Guru, Lord's love wells up not. Imbued with God's devotion, the soul is satiated.
The mammon-worshippers greatly run after riches.
Forgetting the Name, how can they obtain peace?
In three modes thy are destroyed and obtain not emancipation.
Man of falsehood is called a dog and a swine.
Ridden with fear, he barks, barks and barks Himself to death.
False at mind and body, he practises falsehood and because of evil-intellect loses in the Lord's court.
If the True Guru meets, then he renders the mind stable.
He who seeks the Guru's refuge Him the Guru blesses with the Lord's Name.
The Guru gives the wealth of the invaluable Name of the Lord. Whosoever sings His praise will glow in His court.
In the saints' refuge, one is blessed with the Lord's Name.
Through the True Guru's instruction, one knows the state and extent of the Lord.
O Nanak, my soul remember thou, the Lord-God; and God, the Uniter, shall unite thee with Himself.
Maru 1st Guru.
O my silly and childish soul, stay thou in thy home.
Contemplate thou thy Lord, through subjective visualization.
Abandon thy avarice and merge in thy Infinite Lord. This wise shall thou find the door of salvation.
Forgetting whom the Death's courier begins to spy on thee,
comforts flee and misery confronts thee in the Yond.
O my soul, meditate thou on the Lord's Name, by the Guru's grace. Of all the deliberations this alone is the supreme quintessence.
Utter thou the sweet Name of the Lord-Master.
By the Guru's grace, I have seen the Lord's elixir within me,
Day and night remain thou imbued with the Lord's love In this is contained all Worship, penance and self, Discipline.
Through the Guru's word utter thou the Lord name,
Search thou in the saints' society, the Name-nectar.
Under the Guru's instruction find out thou thy own home and thereafter thou shall not be cast into the womb again.
Thou bathe at the pilgrim station of truth, hymn the Lord's praise,
reflect upon reality and be attuned to thy Lord.
Utter thou Name of thy loved Lord-God and at the last moment the Death's myrmidon can touch thee not.
Omnipotent and great True Guru is all-wise and beneficent.
Whosoever has truth within himself; he merges in the Lord.
He, whom the True Guru unites in the Lord's union; he is rid of the great fear of death.
Uniting together the five elements, the body is fashioned.
Within that see thou the Lord's jewel.
The soul is God and He is obtained by pondering over the Name.
O my brother mortals, abide ye in truth and contentment,
and be attached to compassion and the True Guru's refuge.
Knowing the soul know ye the supreme soul, This is how ye can be emancipated, associating with the Guru.
The mammon worshipper is fixed in falsehood and deceit.
Day and night, he slanders one and all.
Without the Lord's meditation, he comes and goes and is cast into the hell of womb species.
The fear of death of the materialist is removed not.
The rod of Yama ever hangs over his head.
The balance of his deeds he has to account for before the Lord Justiciar. The man of ego carries the unbearable load of sins over his head.
Say, who is the infidel that has been saved without the Guru?
Practising self-conceit, he falls into the dreadful world-ocean.
Without the Guru, no one is saved. Remembering the Lord, one is ferried across.
No one can undo the bounty of the Guru.
He, whom, the Lord forgives; Him He ferries across.
The pain of birth and death draws not near him, for the Limitless and Infinite Lord abides within his mind,
They, who forget the Guru, come and go.
They are born to die and commit sins.
The unmindful and foolish worshippers of mammon, contemplate not their God, but when stricken with misery, then cry out they to their Lord.
Weal and woe are the fruits of the past birth's deeds.
He, the Beneficent Lord, who blesses us with these, alone knows their mystery.
Whom can thou blame, O mortal? Thou are undergoing the hard misery for thine own deeds.
Because of practising ego and mine-ness, thou has come in this world.
Hope and desire bind and drive thee.
By indulging in egoism, what else shall thou carry along with thee, except loading the worthless ashes of sins?
O God's saints, my brethren. perform ye the Lord's devotional service.
Utter ye the unutterable gospel of God and your mental desires shall be silenced in the mind itself.
Restrain thy wandering mind in its very home and Lord the Destroyer of sorrow shall destroy all the pains.
I have come under the protection of the Perfect Guru-God.
By the Guru's grace, I have become God-conscious and have realised my Lord's love.
Nanak, through the Lord's Name, my intellect is rendered sublime and granting pardon, that Lord has ferried me across.
Maru 1st Guru.
O my Guru-God, I have entered thy sanctuary.
Thou thyself are the Omnipotent and compassionate Lord, the enemy of ego.
My Master, none knows Thine wonderous plays. Thou are the perfectly powerful Creator-Lord.
From the very beginning and the commencement of ages, Thou are sustaining the beings. O Lord.
O compassionate Lord of incomparable beauty, Thou are contained in all the hearts.
Thou make men walk, as thy will. Every one does as is the order issued by Thee.
Within us is the sublime Light of God, the Life of the world.
God enjoys all the hears and takes their relish.
God Himself gives and Himself takes everything is the Beneficent Father of the beings of the three worlds.
Creating the world, the Lord has staged His play.
In the body of air, water and fire, he has infused life.
The body township has nine gates and the tenth one remains unmanifest.
The four dreadful streams of fire flow through the body.
Some rare Guru-ward, remaining detached by Guru's instruction, understands this.
Through evil-understanding, the materialists are drowned and burnt. The Guru safes those, who are imbued with the Lord's Love.
There are water, fire, are, dust and the sky.
In that house of five elements abides the mortal.
Whosoever remains imbued with the Love of the True Guru's word, he renounces mammon's attachment, ego and duality.
Being propitiated with the Guru's word, this soul is enraptured.
Without the name, what other support can one have?
This body-place is being plundered by the thieves, but this mammon-worshipper knows not these demons within.
Within the mortal are quarrelsome, evil and dreadful goblins.
He picks up strife Life demons.
Without reflecting on the Guru's world, he suffers transmigration, loses honour and continues coming and going.
The body of a false-man is a heap of barren land.
Without the Name what honour can thou have, O man?
Without the Name, he is bound down the four ages through and is emancipated not. The Death's courier ever keeps his eye on him.
At the Yama's door, he is bound down and punished,
the sinner, obtains not salvation.
Like the fish pierced with the hook, the sinner wails and cries.
An apostate faces the guillotine all alone.
The miserable blind man comes in the grab of Yama.
Without the Lord's Name, one knows not emancipation and is wasted away today or the day after,
Without the True Guru, no one is man's friend.
Here and hereafter he the Lord is the mortal's saviour.
Showing His mercy, the Guru blesses man with the Lord's Name and he merges in Him as water does with water.
The Guru instructs the erring sikhs,
and if they go astray, he puts them on the right path.
Day and night, ever serve thou the Guru who is the destroyer of distress and the friend and comrade of thine.
O mortal what devotional service can thou render unto the Guru?
Even Brahma, Indra and Shiva how know it not.
Inscrutable is the True Guru, say, how can he be comprehended? He alone whom he forgives, does realise him?
He, who has love within, obtain the Lord's word, meets with the Lord's vision.
He who enshrines affection for the Guru's word, meets with the Lord.
Day and night, the Guru-ward sees the immaculate light pervading everywhere and the lamp of divine knowledge burns within his mind.
The viand of gnosis is the sweet, supreme elixir.
Whosoever tastes it, he sees the Lord's vision.
Seeing His vision, the Lord's love, meets with the Lord and stilling his mind's craving, he merges in Him.
The most supreme are they, who serve the True Guru.
In every heart, recognise the Transcendent Lord.
My Guru, bless thou Nanak, with God's praise and the association of the Lord's slaves, who realise the Lord-God, through the True Guru.
Maru 1st Guru.
The True Lord is the Creator of the universe.
He has thoughtfully sustained the earth globe.
Creating the creation, the Creator Himself beholds it, True and Independent is He.
The Lord has created the being of different kinds.
The two travelers have struck out two ways.
Without the Perfect Guru, one is emancipated not, By uttering the True name, profit is obtained.
The perverse men read, but know not the way.
They understand not the Name and stray in doubt.
The halter of vice is round the neck of those, who give false evidence by taking a bribe.
People read the Simritis, the Shastras and the Puranas.
They enter into controversies but know not the quintessence.
Without the Perfect Guru, the Real Thing is attained not, The true and pure ones walks along the true track.
All praise, hear and utter Him, the Lord.
God is wise and Himself assays the true.
They, on whom the Lord casts His merciful glance, sing the praise of His Name, by the Guru's grace.
Good many hear and utter the Lord's word.
By hearing and uttering none can know the Lord's limit
He alone is wise, to whom the Unseeable Lord shows Himself and it is he who utters the ineffable discourse of the Lord.
When the child is born, congratulations resound,
and the ignorant ones sing songs of joy.
He, who is born, shall assuredly die, according to the destiny inscribed. on his head by Lord the King.
My Lord has created both union and separation.
Creating the creation, he has endowed it with weal and woe.
The Guru-words remain unaffected by pain and pleasure and wear the armour of humility.
The good are the dealers of the True Lord.
By the Guru's counsel, they purchase the True merchandise.
He, who has the wealth of true commodity in his lap; is blessed with the ecstasy of the True Name.
Loss accrues from the false dealings,
he, who bargains through the Guru, is dear unto the Lord.
He, whose stock-in-trade is whole and whose capital is intact; his death's noose is snapped.
Every one talks as he pleases.
On account of duality, the perverse person knows not how to talk.
The blind man has blind and dear understanding, He suffers the pain of coming and going.
In pain, he is born and in pain he dies.
Pain is stilled not without seeking the Guru's refuge.
In pain man is born and in pain he perishes. What does he brought and what shall he take with him?
True are the deeds of those, who are under the sway of the Guru.
They come and go not, nor are they subject to the laws of death.
Abandoning the branches, whosoever clings to the real-root, enjoys True bliss within his mind.
Godly people the Death's courier, smites not.
They behold not the pain of the difficult road.
In their mind, they worship the Lord's name and have no other engagement.
There is no limit to the Lord's embellished discourse and praise.
O Lord of the will, as if pleases Thee, so do I remain.
They, who obey the True King's order; go to the Lord's court embellishingly robed.
Countless utter the Lord's merits How can I narrate them, ?
Even the greatest of the great knows not the Lord's limit.
Thou, O Lord are the Emperor over the heads of all the Kings. Preserve Thou Nanak honour and bless him with Thy truth.
Maru 1st Guru Dakhni.
Within the body-village, is the castle of the mind.
Within the city of the Tenth Gate, the abode of the True Lord.
Ever stable and immaculate is this place is this place. The Lord Himself has created it.
Within the fortress are balconies and bazars.
The Lord Himself takes care of the goods.
The adamantine doors of the tenth gate are knowingly closed and shut. Through the Guru's word, they are wide-opened.
Within the fortress is the cave of Tenth Gate, the Lord's Home place.
By His order, the Lord of will has established nine apertures to the body-house.
The Incomputable and Infinite Lord abides in the tenth-gate. The Incomputable God of Himself reveals His ownself.
Within the body of air, water and fire, dwells the one Lord.
He himself stages the play and drama.
By the Lord's grace, the burning fire is quenched with the water, of Himself, He treasures up that fore in the ocean.
Creating the earth, God has made it the place to practise faith.
He creates and destroys and Him self remains detached.
Every where the Lord has staged the play of breath in the beings. Withdrawing His might, He makes the beings fall
Thy she-gardener, o Lord, is the eighteen loads of vegetation.
The whirling round of wind is the waving of fly-brush over Thee.
The moon and the sun, the Lord has placed as two lamps. The sun merges in the house of the moon.
The five birds of the saint fly and flee not.
His tree of life is fruitful and bears the ambrosial fruit.
By Guru's grace, the saint contemplates the Lord's hymns and His praise and pecks the corn of the Lord's elixir.
In the Lord's presence flitters the dazzling light, though there is neither the moon nor the stars there,
nor the rays of the sun, nor the lightning flash across the sky.
I am describing that ineffable state, which has no sign or outline and where the Lord, pleasing to the mind is fully pervading.
The rays of the Divine Light have spread out and there is illumination everywhere.
Creating the creation, the merciful Master is Himself beholding it.
Whosoever reaches the Fearless Lord's home, he ever hears the sweet and melodious celestial strain.
When the unstruck melody resounds within man, then his doubt and dread flee.
The Omnipresent Lord gives shade to all.
All belong to Thee, O Lord, By the Guru's grace Thou are known. Singing Thine praise, one looks beauteous in Thy court.
That Primal Lord is Blotless and Immaculate.
I know not any other but Thee.
he, who banishes his self conceit and ego; The Unique Lord abides within him and becomes pleasing to his mind.
I have quaffed the True Guru-Given Nectar of the Lord.
I now know not any other second or the third.
He is the Unique, Infinite and boundless Lord of ours. He assays the mortal before consigning him to His treasury.
Deep and profound is the under standing and contemplation of Thy truth, O Lord.
None knows Thine expanse, O Lord.
As much as is the creation, that much asks Thee for alms. He alone attains to Thee, on whom is Thine grace.
Amnesty and righteousness, Thou holds in Thy hand, O True Lord.
O my care-free Lord, inexhaustible are Thine treasures.
Thou, O Lord, are ever merciful and kind Thou Thyself help man in Thy union.
Thou see Thyself and make men see.
Thou thyself establish and Thyself disestablish all.
The creator Himself unites and separates and He Himself destroys and revives.
Whatever the creation, all that is contained in Thee; O Lord.
Sitting in Thine Royal palace, of Thyself, Thou see Thy creation.
Nanak, makes a true supplication, that whosoever sees the Lord's vision attains peace.
Maru 1st Guru.
If I become pleasing to Thee, O Lord, Then alone can I see Thy vision.
Adoring Thee lovingly, sing I Thy true praise.
If such be Thy will, O Creator Thou become pleasing to me and seem sweet to my tongue.
The saints look beauteous in the Lord's court.
God, Thine slave are emancipated,
Stilling their self-conceit, they are imbued with Thy love and night and day meditate on Thine Name.
Shiva, Brahma, goddesses, gods,
penitents and silent sages long for Thine service.
The celibates, the men of piety and the good many forest-dwellers, obtain not the Lord's limit.
No one can understand Thee, if Though chose not to reveal.
Whatever Thou do, that is Thy will,
Thou has created eighty-four lakhs of beings and they breathe as per Thy will.
Whatever pleases You, happens for sure.
The egocentric shows off himself and bewails.
Forgetting the Name, he finds not refuge and suffers agony in coming and going.
Pure is the body and pure the swan soul,
wherein is the Name, the quintessence of the Immaculate Lord.
All the pain, he in-drinks like Nectar and suffers not sorrow again.
Due to excessive revelries man meets with pain,
sexual pleasure entails disease and he is ultimately wasted away.
The pain which pleasure causes, can never be obliterated, Without accepting the Lord's will, man goes astray.
Without the Divine knowledge, the entire world wanders bout.
Imbibing love for the Lord, the True One is seen pervading every where.
By the True Guru's instruction, the Fear-free Lord is known and he blends the man's soul with the supreme soul.
My Lord is Unfailing, Moveless, Immeasurable and the Enemy of ego.
In an instant he destroys and then builds again.
The Lord has no form, nor outline, nor measure, nor price. Being pierced through with His Name, the mortal is satiated.
O love, I am the slave of thine slaves.
As also of the thoughtful seekers of truth the goodness.
Whosoever accepts the Name, he wins, Of Himself, the Lord implant s truth in the mortal.
The truest of the true is he, who has the True is he, who has True Name in his skirt.
The True Lord loves him unto whom His Name is sweet.
Exercising His might, the Lord has established truth in the three worlds, Through truth is He propitiated.
The Greatest of the great, every one calls Him.
Without the Guru no one really understands Him.
He who merges in truth; Him the True Lord loves, He is separated not, nor sorrows he therefore.
They who are separated from the primal Lord, wail loudly.
When their time is over, they die and then transmigrate.
He, whom the Lord forgives; Him he blesses with glory Uniting him with Himself, the Lord regrets not.
He Himself is the creator and Himself Enjoyer.
He Himself is satiated and Himself emancipated.
The Lord of emancipation, of Himself. gives the gift of emancipation and effaces mine-ness and worldly attachment.
O Lord, I consider Thine bounties to be the Most sublime of all the bounties.
My Infinite Lord, Thou are all Powerful and the Cause of causes.
Creating it, Thou see Thine creation. It is Thou who engages man in the pursuit of good deeds.
They alone sing Thy praise, who are pleasing to Thee,
O True Lord. From Thee, they issue forth and in Thee they merge.
Nanak makes a true supplication; meeting with the True Lord, man obtains peace.
Maru 1st Guru.
For countless ages, there was utter darkness.
There was no earth and no sky, but the Infinite Lord's will alone was; pervasive.
There was neither day nor night, nor moon, nor sun, but the Lord alone sat in profound trance.
Neither there were mines of creation, nor speech, nor air nor water.
Neither creation, nor destruction nor coming, nor going.
There were no continents, nor under worlds nor seven oceans, nor rivers nor the flowing of water.
Then there was no higher middle and lower plane.
Neither thee was hell, nor heaven, nor death, nor time.
There was no world of tortures or region of bliss, no birth or death, nor did any one come or go.
There was no Brahma nor Vishna or Shiva.
None else was seen but He, the One Lord.
Neither there was female, nor male, nor caste, n or birth nor did any one suffer pain or pleasure.
Then there was neither the celibate nor the man of charity, nor the forest-dweller.
Then there was no adept, no striver, no dweller at ease.
There was no Yogi, wandering sage and the religious garb and none called himself the supreme Yogi.
There was no contemplation, penance, self-control, fasting and worship,
Nor did any one speak or tell of duality.
Creating His ownself the Lord was supremely rejoiced and Himself valued His ownself.
There was no purification, or self restraint, or rosary of sweet basil.
There was no Milk-maid, or Krishan, or cow or herdsman.
There were no incantations and spells, no hypocrisy, nor did any one play on the flute.
There were no deeds, religion and the gadfly of mammon.
Caste and birth were not to be seen with eyes.
There was no noose of secular attachment, nor was death writ on the mortal's brow, nor did any one meditate on anyone else.
There was no slander, no seed, no soul and no life.
Then there was no Gorakh nor Machhinder.
Then there was no Divine knowledge, meditation, lineage and creation, nor there was reckoning of accounts.
There was no caste, or religious grab, or Brahman or Kharti,
Neither there was demigod, nor temple, nor cow nor the Hindu's primal, spell,
There used to be no burnt offerings; nor gratuitous feasts, nor ablutions at holies and nor did any one perform worship.
There was no Muslim scholar or judged.
There used to be no Muslim preacher, nor a penitent nor Mecca-pilgrim.
There was no subject, king and worldly pride, nor did any one give himself a big Name.
There was no love or devotion nor mind or matter.
There used to be no Friend, intimate, seed and blood.
There Lord Himself was the Banker and himself the Merchant, Such was the will of the True Lord.
There existed no Vedas nor Muslim book, nor Simritis and nor Shashtras.
There was no reading of Puranas, nor sun-rise, nor sun-set.
The Incomprehensible. Lord was Himself the speaker and Preacher. The Unseeable Lord Himself saw everything.
When he so willed, then He created the world,
and without support sustained the firmament.
He created Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva and extended the love of mammon.
Rare is the person whom the Guru cause to hear the Lord's word,
By His will, the Lord has created the creation and watches over all.
He founded the continents solar systems and under worlds and from the absolute self, He became manifest.
His limit no one knows.
It is through the Perfect Guru, that I have obtained Understanding.
Nanak, wondrous are they, who are imbued with the Lord's truth and hymning His praise they became delighted.
Maru 1st Guru.
Creating the world, all by Himself remains detached.
The Merciful Master has established His True abode.
Binding together air, water and fire, He has created the body fortress.
To it the Creator has fixed the nine doors.
In the Tenth gate is the abode of the Indiscernible Infinite Lord.
The seven seas of the Lord-conscious being are brimful with the Immaculate water of God's Name and to them filth attaches not.
In the lamps of the sun and the moon, the entire light is Thine Lord.
Creating them, Thou witness Thy own glory.
The Peace-giving Lord is ever the Embodiment of Light and meeting with that True Lord man obtains glory.
Within the body fortress are the cities and shop and the business is transacted there.
The Merchant, my God. weighs His wares with the sterling weights.
The Lord himself purchases the emerald and Himself evaluates its worth.
The Appraiser Himself appraises the Thing.
Brimful are the treasures of the care-free Lord.
Holding all the powers in His Hand, the Lord Himself is pervading every where, By the Guru's grace only few understand this.
If the Lord shows mercy, man meets with the Perfect Guru,
and the tyrant Death's courier strikes him not,
He flowers like the lotus flower in the water and instinctively remembers God with glee.
The Lord Himself, rains upon him the ambrosial stream of jewels,
emeralds stream of jewels, emeralds and diamonds of infinite worth.
If the True Guru is met, then man attains to the Perfect Lord, by acquiring the wealth of Divine love.
Whosoever obtains the invaluable wealth of the Lord's love,
becomes of perfect weight and never weighs less.
He, who is the dealer of the True Lord, Loads the true merchandise.
Rare is the person, who gather the true commodity.
Meeting with the Perfect True Guru the mortal meets with his Lord.
He who becomes resigned to Guru will, realises the Lord's will and by accepting His will he merges in Him.
Under the Lord's command, the man is born and under His command, he dies.
The world is seen to have come into being in His will.
In His will, the Lord has created the heaven, this world and in His will, He upholds them.
It is the bull of the Lord's will, that carries the load of earth on its head.
The air, water and the sky are subject to His order.
Through the Lord's will man abides in the house of mammon and through His will he engages in frolics.
In the Lord's will, the sky is stretched all over.
In the Lord's will, the creatures dwell in water, over the dry earth and in the three worlds.
Through the Lord's will, we ever take our breath and morsel and through His will he watches over all and makes them see.
By His order God created ten incarnations,
innumerable gods and numberless devils.
Whosoever obeys the Lord's command; he is robed in the Lord court, Uniting him with the True Name, the Lord merges him in Himself.
In His will, the Lord spent thirty-six ages in seedless trance.
In His will, He has created His seekers, the perfect persons and the men of reflection.
Of Himself, He is the Lord of all and He has snaffled all. Whomsoever He forgives, becomes emancipated.
The mind king abides in the fortress of the body.
with beauteous doors with his special assistants.
Whosoever is engrossed in falsehood and avarice, he obtains not an abode in the Lord-Home. Through greed and sin one regrets.
In this body village of his come to abide the powerful truth, contentment,
chastity, charity and self control, if the mortal seeks the Lord's protection.
Nanak, through the Guru's word one easily meets with Lord, the Life of the world and honour.
Maru 1st Guru.
The Infinite Lord has enshrined His might within all.
He Himself is detached, endless and unequalled.
Creating constitution and creation, the Lord Himself sees them and from His Latent might He has brought forth the souls.
From His Absolute-self, He has created the air and water.
Creating the world, He has appointed mind the King of the body fortress.
Within the fire, water and the living beings, is Thy Light, O Lord and in Thy Absolute-self lies the power of creation.
From the Absolute Lord issued forth the Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva.
From the Absolute Lord have emanated all the ages.
Perfect if he person, who deliberates over this state. Meeting with the doubt is dispelled.
Out of the Lord's Dormant Might, were the seven oceans established.
He, who has created them; he, of Himself, keeps watch over them.
The soul, which by the Guru's grace, bathes in that true tank of the saints' congregations, after-wards enters not existences again.
From the Absolute Lord came the moon, the sun and the firmament.
His light is contained in all the three worlds.
The Unqualitied Lord is Unseeable, Infinite and Immaculate and He the Absolute Lord is seated in trance.
Through his hidden omnipotence, He has created the earth and the sky.
Infusing His true might the Lord has sustained them without pillars.
The Lord has created the three world sand the roper mammon, of Himself, He creates and destroys.
Out of the Absolute Lord have welled up the four sources of creation and from sources of creation and from the Absolute Lord the speech.
All that springs from the Profound Lord, merges in the Profound Lord.
The supreme creator-Lord has created the play of vegetation and by His word has shown the wondrous show.
From His absolute-self, He has made both the night and day.
From the Lord have come creation, destruction, pleasure and pain.
The Guru-ward remains detached from weal and woe and becoming ever-stable gets at his own home.
The white Veda of the Gold age, the yellow one of the Silver-age, the red one of the Brass-age and the black one of the Iron-age,
uttered through the mouth of Brahma speak of the three qualities of mammon.
None of them can utter his worth As, he makes one speak, so speaks he.
From His absolute-self, the creator has created the seven nether worlds.
From His absolute-self, he has established this world to embrace love for Him.
Of Himself the Infinite Lord has made the world, Everyone acts as is His will.
Thy power O Lord, is diffused in the three modes of optimism, egotism and pessimism.
Through pride, the mortal suffers the pang of birth and death.
To whomsoever, the Lord shows mercy, by the Guru's grace; attaining unto the fourth state, he is emancipated.
Out of the Unqualitied Lord, have come the ten incarnations.
Creating the universe, the Lord has extended the extension.
The Lord has made the gods, demons, heavenly heralds and celestial musicians. Everyone does the deed writ in his destiny.
He who knows by the Guru's grace, is afflicted not.
Some rare person, realises this ladder of the Guru.
Whosoever is dedicated unto the Guru; He remains detached all the ages through, is emancipated and obtains honor.
From the Absolute Lord, have become manifest the five elements.
Assembled of those, the body practises various deeds.
Both the bad and good deeds are written on man's brow and he sows the seeds of sin and virtue.
Sublime and detached is the Lord incarnate True Guru.
He is imbued with the Name and is inebriated with God's elixir.
Riches, intellect, perfection and gnosis are obtained from the Guru. It is through perfect destiny that one meets with the Guru.
This mind has great love of mammon.
Let some divine know and discriminate it.
Involved in hope, desire, ego and doubt, the greedy man practises falsehood.
Obtaining Divine comprehension from the True Guru,
the mortal abides within the Lord's True Home in the state of seedless trance.
Nanak, within him resounds the immaculate music of the Name and he merges in the Lord's True Name.
Maru 1st Guru.
Wherever I see, there I find my Master, Merciful to the meek.
My compassionate Lord comes and goes not.
Amongst all the beings, He is contained in a mysterious way but the king, Himself, remains detached.
The world is the reflection of Him, who has no father and mother.
He has earned neither a sister nor a brother.
He is without birth, death, lineage and caste, He, who ages not, is pleasing to my mind.
Thou are the immortal Lord. Over Thy head death is not.
Thou are the Ineffable, Inaccessible and Detached Lord.
True, content and very cool are Thou, O Lord, Through calm and cool temperament, one is attuned to thee.
The world moves in the three modes, whilst Thou, O Lord abide in the home of the fourth state.
Thou has over powered or made a morsel of death and birth.
The immaculate Light of the Lord is the life of the whole world. By the Guru's grace, the unstuck melody is realised.
Sublime and commendable are the holy persons, who are the beloveds of God.
They are inebriated with the Lord's elixir and are ferried across.
Nanak is the dust of the society of the pious persons and by the Guru's grace, he has obtained his Lord.
Thou, O Lord, are the Inner-knower and all the beings are Thine.
Thou are my Beneficent Lord and I am a slave of Thine.
Mercifully bless Thou me with Thy ambrosial Name and the jewel of the lamp of the Guru's gnosis.
Uniting the five elements together this body is made.
Obtaining the All-pervading Lord, peace is procured.
The meritorious deeds and pursuits bear the Nectar-fruit and the mortal is blessed with the jewel of the Lord's Name.
His mind feels not hunger and thirst.
He realises the Pure Lord to be everywhere and in all the hearts.
Adorned with the Guru's instruction and love, he becomes Immaculate and detached and is imbued with Lord's ambrosial relish.
Whosoever does the spiritual deeds, day and night,
he comes to realise within himself the immaculate Divine Light.
Enraptured with the relish of God's Name, the Home of elixir, my tongue plays upon the melodious flute.
He alone plays on the melodious flute,
who has the knowledge of the three worlds.
O Nanak, know thou this way through the Guru's Instruction and be attuned to the Lord God's Name.
Rare are such persons in this world,
who reflect over the Guru's word and remain detached.
They save Themselves and all their associates. Fruitful is their birth and advent in this world.
He alone knows his body-home and God's mansion,
who has obtained understanding from the Perfect Guru.
In the body fortress is a place, wherein abides the Lord of palace, wherein abides the Lord of palace, the True Master. The True One has established his True Throne in the Tenth gate.
The fourteen worlds (four and ten shops) and the two lamps of the sun and the moon are the witnesses,
that the Lord's slaves, the elite, taste not the poison of sins.
Within the mortal is the invaluable commodity of incomparable beauty. Meeting with the Guru this wealth of the Lord is obtained.
He alone, who is worthy of the throne, sits on the throne.
He is such a page of the Lord; who by Guru's instruction, has silenced the five demons.
Contemplating the Lord, who was in the very beginning and the beginning of ages, is now, and shall also be, one is purged of anxiety and doubt.
Day and night the Lord of the throne is greeted with salutation.
This True glory is earned by him alone, who loves the Guru's gospel.
O Nanak, meditate thou on the Lord. thus swim across the world-river and attain to thy God, who shall be thy succor in the end.
Maru 1st Guru.
O man, my brother, amass thou the Lord's riches.
Serve the True Guru and abide in his refuge.
Lord's riches can be thieved and burgled not, as the Name's melody wells up in him and he keeps awake.
O unique Lord, Thou are my Immaculate King.
Thou Thyself arranges Thine slave's affairs.
Thou, O Lord, are Immortal, Moveless, Infinite and priceless, and ever-stable is Thy beauteous seat.
In the sublime place of the body village,
abide the supremely pious persons.
They are attuned to the seedless trance of the supreme and immaculate unique Lord.
The nine doors to every township of the body,
are fixed by the Creator-Lord.
Within the Tenth Gate abides the Detached and Unequalled Lord. The Inscrutable Lord Himself makes one realise Him.
True is the court of the Unaccountable Lord.
He, the Master, issues the true orders and warrants.
Nanak, seeking and searching thy own Home obtain thou the Name of thy All-pervading Lord God.
He, the Lord, is Omnipresent, Immaculate and Omniscient.
He administers justice and is merged in the Guru's gnosis.
Seizing by the neck, He beheads lust and wrath and banishes ego and avarice.
In the True Place, abides the Formless Lord.
He alone ponders over His Name, who understands himself.
Within the True Mansion abides the Lord and He rids man of coming and going.
He wabbles not, nor does the wind of desire drift that,
Yogi within who's mind resounds the celestial strain.
The Lord Himself hymns the pure music of the five tunes and makes the yogi hear it.
He, who enshrines the Lord's fear and love, is absorbed in equipoise.
He eschews ego and is imbued with the limitless Lord.
Putting the salv of Divine knowledge one realises, that though pervading everywhere, God, the King remains detached.
The Imperishable Lord is the Destroyer of distress and dread.
He cures the diseases and snaps the death's noose.
Nanak, the Lord God is the Destroyer of fear and He, the Lord Master, is obtained by meeting with the Guru.
He, who realises, the Immaculate Lord, eats up death.
He, who realises the Lord's grace, understands His Name.
The Lord Himself knows the mortal's actions and Himself assays them. The entire world is all a play of His.
Of Himself. the Lord is the Banker and Himself the merchant.
Becoming an Assayer, He Himself assays men.
He Himself tests on His touch-stone and of Himself appraises their worth.
The compassionate Lord Himself shows mercy.
He, the Gardner of the woods, is pervading all the hearts.
The Detached and Pure Lord abides within all, The Guru-God makes man meet with the Lord.
The all-wise and all-seeing Guru-God purges man of his ego,
rids him of another's love and makes him see the one Lord alone.
Such a man remains detached amidst hope and sings the praise of the caste-less Immaculate Lord.
He who stills his ego, obtains the Name's bliss.
He alone is the divine, who reflects on his ownself.
Nanak singing God's praise and God's glory, profit is obtained and associating with the saints' society the true fruit.
Maru 1st Guru.
If thou wish to abide in the True Home, then utter thou the truth.
Remaining dead in life, thou shall cross the terrible world ocean.
The Guru is the ship, the Guru the boat and raft, remembering God, the mortal swims across.
He who silences his ego, worldly love and greed,
is released of the grip of the nine doors and obtains a seat in the tenth gate.
The Lord, who has created his ownself, is the most high, the remotest of the remote and limitless.
Obtaining the Guru's instruction and enshrining the Lord's love one crosses the world ocean.
Why should one dread death, when he sings the praise of the sin-free Lord?
Wheresoever I see, there I see Thee alone, I sing not of any other.
True is the Lord's Name and true His refuge.
True is the Guru's instruction, holding to which one is ferried across.
The mortal, who describes the Indescribable discourse, sees the Limitless Lord and enters not the womb to exist again.
Without the True name, one obtains not purity and contentment.
Without the Guru, man is emancipated not and continues coming and going.
Says Nanak, uttering the Lord's Name, the Primal sermon and the Home of elixir, I have attained to the Perfect Lord.
Without the True Name, the dreadful world-ocean can be crossed not.
This unfathomable ocean is brimful with the exceedingly poisonous water.
Obtaining the Guru's instruction, he, who remains detached and above desire, finds a place in the Fearless Lord's mansion.
False is the love and cleverness of the world.
They delay not in coming and going.
Forgetting the Name, the proud ones depart, They are bothered in birth and death,
Bound in worldly bonds, the mortals come and go,
The noose of the pride of mammon is round their neck.
Whosoever enshrines not the Lord's Name within his mind, by Guru's instruction; He is chained and goaded into the city of death.
Without the Guru, how can there be acquittal and emancipation?
Without the Guru, how can the Lord's Name be meditated upon?
Obtaining the Guru's Instruction, cross thou the arduous world ocean. This way thou get emancipated and obtain peace.
By the Guru's wisdom Krishan lifted the mount of Govardhan.
Under the Guru's guidance, Ram Chandar floated the stones over the sea.
By obtaining the Guru's instruction the supreme status is attained. Nanak, the Guru banishes the man's doubt.
Accepting the Guru's instruction, swim thou across the world stream, through truth,
and within the heart of thy heart, contemplate thou God, the Enemy of Pride.
Remembering God. Death's noose is snapped and the Unlineal. Pure Lord is obtained.
By the Guru's gospel the saints become man's succourers, O my brother-in-faith.
By the Guru's instruction man's inner fire is quenched and destroyed.
With thy mind and mouth, utter thou the Name of God, the Life of the world and know thou the Unknowable Lord in thy heart.
He, who knows the Lord, by the Guru's grace is pleased with the Name.
Whom does he (Such a person) praise or slander i.e. He praises or slanders none.
Understand thou thyself, remember the Lord of the world and in thy mind be thou pleased with the Master of the Universe.
Know thou Him, who is pervading the world and the continents.
By the Guru's grace, understands and realise thou thy Lord.
The Enjoyer enjoys in all the hearts and yet remains detached from all.
By the Guru's instruction, utter thou the pure praise of God.
Through the Guru's word, see thou the Lofty Lord with thine eyes.
Whosoever hears with his ears, the Name and the Divine Gurbani; he is imbued with the Lord's love, O Nanak,
Maru 1st Guru.
Abandon thou thy lust, wrath and the slander of others.
Shedding thy greed and avarice become thou care-free.
Breaking the chain of doubt, be thou detached. This wise thou shall find God and God's elixir, within thee.
As during night, one sees the light with the flash of lighting,
so day and night beholds he God's light within himself.
God, the Embodiment of bliss, possesses unparalleled beauty and the Perfect Guru shows Him unto the mortal.
Meet thou the True Guru and you will be saved by God,
who has placed the lamps of the moon and the sun in the sky home.
See thou the Unseeable Lord and remain absorbed in His love. In all the Three worlds, The Pervading God is wholly contained.
Obtaining the immortalising Name Nectar, desire and dread are dispelled.
Stilling his self-conceit, man attains to the rank of recondite realisation.
Practising the immaculate Name one is blessed with the high status and is rendered the Loftiest of the lofty.
Infinite is the Name of the Unseeable and Incomprehensible Lord.
Extremely sweet is the beloved Name-Nectar.
Says Nanak, O Lord God, bless thou me with Thy praise in every age. By contemplating Thee I can find not thy limit.
Enshrining the Name in the mind, God, the gem is obtained.
Remembering the Lord, the mind is comforted by the mind itself.
Treading the difficult; path God, the Destroyer of dread is obtained and one enters not the womb again.
Through the Guru's word, yearning for the Lord's devotional service is produced.
I ask for the God's praise and The Name's wealth.
When the Lord God so wills, He unites me in the Guru's union and save the whole world.
He; who utter the Lord's Name, attains to the True Guru's wisdom.
Death's tyrant myrmidon becomes the servant of his feet.
In the sublime association man's state and why of life become sublime and he swims across the terrible world ocean.
This hideous world sea is crossed over by Guru's instruction,
and the mind's duality is burnt down in the mind.
Taking the five arrows of virtues, one should put them on the bow of the Tenth Gate and slay death.
How can a perverse person obtain knowledge of the Lord's Name, ?
Without the Name's knowledge, man continues coming and going.
By the Guru's grace man obtains the support of salvation and through perfect good luck he meets with the Lord, O Nanak.
The fearless True Guru is the protection of all.
It is through the Guru-God, that the Lord's meditation is attained to.
The blissful music of the Guru's word spontaneously plays for him, who has obtained the Immaculate Lord.
God alone is fearless and on His head destiny is recorded not.
Of Himself the Lord is Unseeable but He is seen through His wondrous nature.
The Lord Himself is detached, unborn and self-existent, He, the Lord, O Nanak is obtained through the Guru's instruction.
The True Guru knows the state of the man's mind.
He alone is fearless, who realises the Lord through the Guru's word,
He looks within himself, realises the Lord amongst all and his mind wabbles not in duality.
He alone is fear-free, within whose mind the Lord abides,
and who is delighted day and night with His immaculate Name.
Nanak, God's praise man obtains through the Society of the saints and he automatically meets with God.
He who knows the Lord both within and without,
remains detached and brings back home his wandering mind;
he, O Nanak obtains the delicious Nectar of the Primal True God, who is the Lord of all the three worlds.
Maru 1st Guru.
Infinite is the Creator, who manifests Himself through His Omnipotence.
The created one no power before Him.
Creating the creatures, He Himself reaches them sustenance, His writ runs over all.
The Pervading God is driving all in His will.
Whom should I call near Him and whom far?
Both unmanifest and manifest, see thou the Lord in all the hearts, The Unique Lord is contained amongst all.
He, whom the Lord unites with Himself, In his thought, He Himself abides.
By the Guru's instruction, man meditates on the God's Name.
The Beauteous Lord is Incomprehensible and an embodiment of bliss Meeting with the Guru man's doubt is dispelled.
Dearer than my mind, body and wealth, is the Lord's name unto me.
In the end, at the time of departure, it shall be my succourer.
In this world of secular attachment, none is another's comrade or friend, Without the Guru God, who has ever obtained peace?
He; to whom the perfect Guru extends his mercy;
him the Chivalrous Guru unites with the Name through his instruction.
Nanak, worship thou the feet of the Guru, who has put the one who has lost the way on the right path.
Unto the pious persons, the wealth of God's is dear.
Through the Guru's instruction, I am blessed with Thy Name, O Lord.
The mumper performs service at the Lord's door and in the Lord's court, he hymns His praise.
When one meets with the True Guru, then is he called into the Lord's mansion.
In the True court, he is blessed with emancipation and honour.
The mammon-worshipper gets no seat in the God's place and suffers pain in coming and going.
O man, serve thou the True Guru, the unfathomable ocean,
and thou shall obtain the profit of the wealth of the Name jewel.
Meeting with the Guru, the ocean of contentment and bathing in the tank of the Name-Nectar, the sins filth is washed off.
Serve thou the True Guru and hesitate not.
In the midst hope, remain thou without hope.
Serve thou the Destroyer of doubt and pain and afterwards thou shall not be gripped by malady again.
He, who is pleasing to the True Lord; him He blesses with glory;
who else can instruct him?
The Lord and the Guru work on the same plane, O Nanak, and the Lord loves the Guru.
Some read books, the Vedas and Puranas.
Some sit down, read to others and hear with their ears.
Say, how can the huge shutters be opened? Without the True Guru, quintessence can be obtained not.
Some amass dust and with dust they besmear their bodies,
but within them are the pariahs of wrath and pride.
By practising hypocrisy, union with the Lord is procured not. Without the True Guru, one attains not the Unseeable Lord.
Some take vow to visit holies, observe fasts and live in woods.
Some practise chastity, charity and self-control and discourse on the gnosis.
Without the Lord's Name, how can peace be obtained? Without the True Guru, doubt is dispelled not.
Inly-washing and mounting of breath to the Tenth Gate, through the coiled pipe (trachea),
and exhaling, inhaling and stopping of breath through mind's obstinacy;
by such hypocritical creeds, love for the Lord is enshrined not. It is through the Guru's gospel that the Name's supreme elixir is obtained.
Seeing the Lord's Omnipotence, my soul is propitiated.
Through the Guru's word, I have realised the Creator. Lord every where.
Nanak, the All-pervading Lord is contained amongst all. The Great True Guru, has shown me the invisible God.
Maru Solhe 3rd Guru.
There is but one God. By The True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
In His will, the Lord has effortlessly created the world.
Creating the creation, he beholds the feat of His greatness.
God Himself does and Himself makes others do, In His will, He is pervading all.
The World is enveloped by the darkness of the love of riches.
Rare is the person who realises and reflects on it, by the Guru's grace.
He alone attains to Him, to whom the Lord Himself shows His grace.
Of Himself, by uniting man with the Guru, He units man in His union and blesses him with glory,
and thus by the Guru's grace, man comes to know the Lord's worth.
The perverse person greatly wander bewailing and is utterly ruined by another's love.
He, who harbours pride of riches.
That egocentric goes astray and loses his honour.
He who becomes God-conscious, is absorbed in His name and remains merged in the True Lord.
He, who obtains gnosis and the Name-jewel from the Guru;
he silences his desire and merges in the supreme soul.
Of Himself, the Creator-Lord stages all the plays and of Himself blesses with understanding.
He, who serves the True Guru and effaces his self-conceit;
he meets with his love Lord and attains peace.
His heart is imbued with the Lord's love and service and naturally he becomes one with the Lord.
Through the Guru, I have realised God, the Destroyer of pain.
Beneficient God, the life of the world, has Himself met me, now.
He alone understands the Lord, whom He yokes to Himself and dread and doubt flee from his body,
God Himself is the supreme Guru and Himself blesses with his association.
By the True name's blessing one serves the True Guru.
Old age and death can touch not him with whom his True Lord is pleased.
the world is burning in the fire of desire.
In many sins, if burns, burns and is wasted away.
The egocentric finds not refuge anywhere. The True Guru has imparted this understanding unto me.
Very lucky are they, who serve their True Guru,
they ever remain absorbed in the love of the True Name.
Their mind is permeated with the immaculate Name and their desire, the Name has quenched.
True is the Lord and true is His Gurbani.
Rare is the one, who by Guru's grace understands this thing.
Detached are they, who are imbued with the True Name and endued are their coming and goings.
He, who realises the Lord, is purged of the filth of sins.
The immaculate Name comes and abides within his mind.
He ever serves his True Guru and his self-conceit is eradicated from within him.
Through the Guru, if one understands the Lord, then sees he the Lord's door.
Bereft of the Name, the mortal utters, prattles and quarrels in vain.
the glory of serving the True Guru is that man is rid of his thirst and hunger.
When one understands his ownself, then meets he with the Lord.
Without Divine knowledge, one understands nothing.
He, in whose mind abides ever the gift of the Guru's teaching; within him resounds the Lord's Gurbani.
What is pre-ordained for man, that deed he does.
None can erase the order of the Primal Lord.
They alone abide in the saints society in whose destiny it is so writ by the Lord.
He alone obtains the Lord, on whom is His grace.
Yokes he his mind to the trance of the True Name.
Prays slave Nanak, "O Lord, bless me, a mumper at Thine Door, with the alms of Thy Name".
Maru 3rd Guru.
He, the One alone, is pervading everywhere.
By the Guru's grace, some rare one understands this.
The One Lord is contained amongst all, Without Him, there is not another.
God has created eighty-four lakhs of species.
This is what the theologians and the visualisers utter an proclaim.
Of Himself. He reaches sustenance to all, None else can apprise His worth.
Inky darkness is the love of riches,
The entire world is the expanse of ego and selfhood.
Night and day, the mortal ever continues to burn and without the Guru, he obtains not peace.
The Lord Himself unites and Himself separates.
He Himself establishes and Himself disestablishes.
True is His command and true His expanse. Without Him, none else can issue a command.
He alone, whom he attaches to Himself, is attached to Him,
By the Guru's grace, the fear of death flees.
Within man abides the ever Peace giving Lord, but through the Guru's grace, only few realise it.
They who associate with the saints society; Them the Lord unites with Himself.
What is pre-destined, that can be erased not.
By the Guru's grace, the mortal, night and day ever, remembers and serves his Lord.
Serving the True Guru, experience I the eternal-peace.
God, the Giver of all, of Himself, has come and met me.
I have silenced my ego, quenched the fire of my desires and contemplating the Name have obtained peace.
Through the love of his body and the family, one understands not his Lord.
If he becomes God-conscious, then sees he his Lord with his eyes.
Night and day, he utters ever the Name and meeting with his love attains bliss.
The mind of the perverse person wanders about and is attached to duality.
Why did not he, the unfortunate one die, as soon as he was born?
Incoming and going, he loses his life in vain. Without the Guru, he is emancipated not.
Impure is the body which is soiled with the filth of ego.
Though washed a hundred times, even then this filth is removed not.
If washed with the Name, then alone it is cleansed and goes not ever dirty again.
The five demons destroy the body.
The mortal reflects not on the Name, He dies and suffers transmigration.
Within him is the darkness of riches and worldly love and as in dream, he has no knowledge of his ownself.
Some there are, who overcoming the five demons, are yoked to the Lord's Name.
Them, the very fortunate one, the True Guru comes and meets.
Within them is truth, imbued with the Lord's love they utter the Name and merge in God.
The Guru's way is known only through the Guru.
The perfect salve is known, through his living unto the Guru's teaching.
Within his mind, he ponders over the True Name and he alone tastes the true elixir with his tongue.
Through the Lord's Name I have stilled and silenced my self conceit.
God's Name, I have enshrined with my mind.
Without the One Lord, I know none else, come what may naturally come.
Without the True Guru no one obtains the Divine knowledge.
He who knows by the Guru's grace, merges in the True Lord.
He serves the True Lord, is imbued with the True Name and banishes His pride through the Lord's Name.
God, the Giver of virtue, is Himself the Discerner.
The Guru-ward surrenders unto the Lord his perfected soul chess-figure.
Nanak, the true one merges in the Name and through the True Name obtains he the honour.
Maru 3rd Guru,
The one Beneficent True Lord is the life of the universe.
Through the Guru's service and instruction is He realised.
There is but one rule and one command and in every age, the Lord Yokes each one to his task.
Immaculate is the man who knows himself.
Him, the Peace-giving Lord comes to meet of Himself.
Imbued with the Name, his tongue hymns the Lord's praise and he obtains honour in the court.
The Guru-ward is blessed with the Name's glory,
The apostate slandered loses his honour.
Imbued with the Name, the supreme swans remain detached and sit in trance in their own home.
Perfect is the persons, who dies through the Name.
This is what True Guru, the hero utters and proclaims.
In the body is the true tank of Nectar and the soul in-drinks it with love and devotion.
The Brahman reads and instructs others,
but knows he not that his own home is on fire.
Without serving the True Guru, one is blest with the Name. Even by growing weary through reading man obtains not peace.
Some there are, who becoming disguisers, smear their body with dust and roam about.
Without the name, who has ever stilled his ego?
Night and day, they ever continue burning. Deluded by doubt and dress they keep wandering about.
some there are who ever detached midst their home and kith and kin,
They die through the Guru's word and abide in the Lord's Name.
Night and day, they ever remain imbued with bliss and yoke their mind to the fear, love and the service of their Lord.
The egocentric, within whom barks the dog of greed,
continually indulges in slander and is thus wasted away.
Death's courier leaves him not ever and in the end, he regretfully quits the world.
Through the True Name, one obtains true honour.
Without the Name, none attains emancipation.
Without the True Guru, no one finds the Name. Such is the rule, which my Lord has established.
Some there are who are adepts, strivers and great thinkers.
Some, day and night; remain imbued in the name of the formless Lord.
Whomsoever the Lord unites with Himself, he alone understands Him, Through the Lord's loving adoration one is rid of one's fear.
Some take bath and give in charity, but understand not.
Some struggle with their mind and ultimately subdue it.
Some are imbued with the love of the True Name and this wise blend with the True Lord.
Of Himself, the Lord creates and blesses with glory.
In His will the Lord Himself unites such a man with Himself unites such a man with Himself.
Showering His benediction, He Himself abides in man's mind. Such is the command of my Master.
True are the mortals who serve their True Guru.
The false way-ward know not the Guru's service.
Creating the creation, the creator Himself sees it. As he wills, so He yokes all.
All the ages through, the True Lord alone is the Giver.
When mortal's destiny is perfect, he realises the Lord, through the Guru's gospel.
They who meet with the lords, separate not again. By His grace, God blends, them with Himself.
One practises pride and amasses filthy riches.
He dies and due to duality suffers transmigration.
Without serving the True Guru, one is emancipated not O mind! ponder thou over this and see.
Whatever he wills, that alone he does.
Of oneself, one has done nothing, nor will he ever do.
Nanak, through the Name, one is blessed with glory and obtains honour in the True court.
Maru 3rd Guru.
They who are come; They all shall assuredly depart.
Attached to another's love, one falls into the Yama's noose.
The persons whom the True Guru saves, swim across and merge in the Truest of the True.
Of Himself the Creator creates the creation and then watches it.
That person alone becomes acceptable, to whom the Lord shows mercy.
The Guru-ward attains Divine comprehension and he understands quintessence and every thing. The man of ignorance does blind deeds.
The egocentric is involved in doubt and obtains not understanding.
He loses his life in vain, dies and continually transmigrates.
The Guru-ward is imbued with the Name, obtains peace and easily merges in the True Lord.
Running after the worldly pursuits, the mind has rusted.
Meeting with the Perfect Guru, it is transmuted into gold again.
When the Lord, of Himself forgives the mortal, he is blessed with bliss and meets with the Lord through the Perfect Gurbani.
The bride of evil intellect is false, wicked and pernicious,
Of the sinners, she is the worst sinner.
False is her mind, insipid her words of mouth and being of mal-understanding, she obtains not the Name.
The unvirtuous bride is liked not by her spouse.
Impure at heart, she practises impiety,
The stupid bride knows not the will of her Groom. Without the Guru, she obtains not understanding.
The evil-intellected, wicked wife practises wickedness,
She makes decorations, but the Dear spouse loves her not.
The virtuous bride ever enjoys her Groom and the True Guru unites her in her Lord's union.
Of Himself the Lord commands and beholds all.
There are some, whom the Lord forgives, in accordance with His eternal writ.
Night and day they remain imbued with the Name an obtain the True Lord. Of Himself the Lord unites them in His union.
Self-conceit attaches man to the relish of mammon and worldly love.
Through true love, the Guru-ward merges in the Lord.
The Lord Himself unites, Himself does and sees all, Without the True Guru, this understanding is obtained not.
There are some persons who reflect on the Name and ever remain awake.
Some unfortunate ones remain asleep in the love of worldly valuables.
The Lord Himself makes others do, None else can do a thing.
Through the Guru's word, man overcomes and slays death,
and keeps clasped God's Name to his heart.
By the True Guru's service he attains peace and merges in the God's Name.
Due to another's love the world wanders about madly,
and is engrossed in the pain of worldly love.
Wearing many garb, the Lord is attained not. Without the True Guru, it finds not bliss.
When the Lord Himself does everything, whom should one blame, then?
As is His will, so is the path he makes man take.
The Lord Himself is merciful and peace-giving. As is His will, so drives He the mortals.
He Himself is the Creator and Himself the Enjoyer.
He Himself is detached and Himself attached.
He Himself is immaculate, compassionate and the Lover of Nectar, whose will can be erased not.
They alone are very fortunate, who know but One Lord.
The beneficent Lord, the Life of world, abides in all the hearts.
He is Unmanifest and Manifest at the same time. By the Guru's grace, doubt and dread are dispelled.
By the Guru's grace, the mortal knows the one sire Lord.
Within him is the Name and he knows the Lord alone.
He whom Thou give; That man alone receives the Name. O Nanak, greatness lies only in the God's name.
Maru 3rd Guru.
I praise my True, Deep and Unfathomable Lord.
The whole world is in His power.
Day and night, He ever enjoys in all hearts and Himself is the abode of bliss.
True is the Lord and true is His Name.
By Guru's grace, I enshrine Him in my mind.
Of Himself, He has come to death's noose is loosened for me.
Whom should I serve and whom praise?
I serve the True Guru and praise my Lord.
With the True Name, one's intellect is rendered sublime for aye and his heart-lotus blooms.
The body is perishable like the paper.
When the drop of water falls, it crumbles and is wasted away without delay.
Gold-like is the body of him, who realises the Lord, through the Guru and within whose mind the Name abides.
Pure is the kitchen-enclosure, which is enclosed with the lines of Divine knowledge.
God's Name is my diet and truthfulness my life's mainstay,
Ever satiated, immaculate and pure is the person, in whose mind the Lord's Name abides.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who are attached to the True Name.
They celebrate the Lord's praise and night and day remain awake.
True happiness ever abides within them and their tongue enjoys the God's elixir.
I remember only the Lord's Name and adore not any other.
I serve the One Lord and not another.
The Perfect Guru has shown me the entire truth and I abide in the True Name.
Wandering, wandering through species again and again, the mortal has come.
When duped by the Lord, he automatically goes astray.
When by Guru's grace man understands and remembers the Name of the Immortal Lord, then meets he with the reverend God.
I, the sinner, am brimful with lust and wrath.
I have no virtue, nor have I rendered any service, with what face, therefore, can I utter aught?
Thou Thyself, O Lord, unite me, the sinking stone, with Thee, Ever eternal is Thine True Name.
None can do a thing, nor is any one potent to do.
Whatever He Himself does or causes to be done, That alone comes to pass.
He, whom He Himself forgives, is blest with bliss and ever abides in the Name.
If this body be the earth and the Infinite Name the seed,
then man has trade and dealings with the True Lord alone.
Within him grows the true wealth and it exhausts not and within him abides the Name.
O my Reverend Lord, be thou good to me the sinner,
and forgive me and bless me with Thine Name.
He, who gets resigned to the Guru's will, obtains honour and resides in the Name of the One Lord.
God's wealth is within the mortal but he knows it not.
By the Guru's grace, some rare one knows it.
He who is Guru-ward, is blessed with the Lord's wealth and lives he ever in the Name.
The fire of desire, and the wind of hope stray the man in doubt.
In the love of riches he has no understanding.
The blind egocentric sees but nothing By the Guru's teaching the Name is manifested.
The way-ward are asleep in self conceit and worldly valuable.
They guard not their home and are ruined in the end.
They slander others, burn in the fire of great care and abide in terrible pain.
Of Himself the creator has accomplished the deed.
The Guru-ward, He Himself blesses with understanding.
Nanak, imbued with the Name, man becomes immaculate and abides in nothing but the Name.
Maru 3rd Guru.
Serve I the One Lord, who is ever-stable and true.
Attached to duality, the entire world is false.
Through the Guru's instruction, praise I ever the True Lord and with the Truest of the true my soul is pleased.
Thine virtues are many, O Lord I know not even one.
The Beneficent Lord, the Life of the world, Himself attaches one to his service.
The Lord Himself forgives and blesses with glory. By the Guru's Instruction this soul is delighted.
Through The Name, I am now rid of the tide of mammon,
and by stilling ego, this soul of mine is rendered immaculate.
Imbued with the Lord's love, I now easily sing His praise and my tongue utters the Lord's Name
The mortal passes his life saying "This is mine, mine".
The egocentric chastens not herself and wanders about in ignorance.
The Death's courier watches her every moment and trice. By night and day her life is wearing off.
One inwardly practises avarice and knows not his Lord.
He sees not the Death's myrmidon hovering over his head.
Whatever man does here, that confronts him in the yond. He can do nothing when the last moment arrives.
True is the repute of those, who are attached to the True Lord.
Attached to duality, the egocentrics bewail in the end.
He Himself is the Lord of both the ends and of Himself he is delighted in virtue.
Through the Guru's word, one is decked for aye.
With the Lord's Name, the Home of elixir, this soul is captivated.
The soul is soiled not a bit with the filth of the love of mammon and through the Guru's instruction it is ecstasied with the God's Name.
He, the one Lord is contained amidst all.
By the Guru's grace, He becomes manifest.
He who silences his ego, obtains lasting peace and in-drink the Nectar of the True Name.
The Lord is Destroyer of sin and pain.
By the Guru's grace, one serves Him and reflects on His Name.
Of Himself, the Lord is; pervading all. The Guru-ward's body and mind are welled with glee.
In the fire of worldly valuables, the world is burning.
Pondering over the Name, the pious person quenches this fire.
Within him is peace and he obtains eternal bliss, By the Guru's instruction, he is blest with the Lord's Name.
Indras, seated on their thrones are in the fear of death.
They do many deeds, but Yama spares them not.
When man meets with the True Guru, then is he emancipated and in-drinks the Lord Master's elixir with his tongue.
Within the mind of the egocentric Lord's devotional service abides not.
Through the Lord's devotional service, the God-conscious being is blessed with peace and pleasure.
Ever pure and immaculate is the Gurbani and mortal's mind is drenched with it.
I have thought about Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva.
They are bond down by the three dispositions; so, salvation remains dispositions; so, salvation remains far from them.
The Guru ward know s the wisdom of the One Lord and night and day utters His Name.
One reads the Vedas, but realises not God's Name,
and reading and reciting quarrels for the sake of wealth.
Within the ignorant and blind mortal is the filth of sin, How can he cross the impassable world-ocean?
He expounds all the controversial view points of the Vedas,
but his soul is pacified not, nor realises he the Name.
The Vedas tell of all the virtues and vices, but it is through the Guru alone, that the Name-Nectar is quaffed.
He, the Unique True Lord is all by Himself,
without Him there is not any other.
Nanak, true is the soul of him, who is imbued with the Name and who tells nothing but truth.
Maru 3rd Guru.
The True Lord has established His True Throne.
He abides in His own Home and there is no worldly attachment and mammon there.
Sublime are the deeds of the Guru-ward, within whose mind the True Lord ever abides.
True is his merchandise and true his trade.
There in him there is no doubt, nor is their any other ostentation.
He has earned the True wealth which exhausts not ever, Hardly any one understands this through deep deliberation.
Only those persons attach to the True Lord attaches.
On their brow is recorded good fortune and within their mind abides the Name.
Through the True Gurbani, they ever celebrate the Lord's praise and are imbued with the Name's meditation.
Praise I the True Lord, the Truest of the true.
I see the One alone and not another,
Guru's gospel, is the ladder to reach the highest of the high spiritual status and with the jewel of gnosis, self-conceit it stilled.
The love of riches is burnt down through the Lord's Name.
When it so pleases Thee, O Lord, the True Name abides in man's mind.
True is the entire way of life of the man of truth and he over comes the thirst of his self-conceit.
All by Himself, the Lord has created the love of worldly valuables.
Rare is the one, who by the Guru's grace realises the Lord.
He, who gets resigned to the Guru's will, practises truth and true and sublime becomes his way of life.
He does such deeds, which are pleasing to my Lord,
and through the Name, he burns his self-conceit and desire.
By the Guru's instruction, his mind ever remains cool and he stills and silences his ego.
They, who are attached to truth, like every thing.
Through the True Name, they are truly embellished.
They, who are true here, are also true in the Lord's court. The Merciful Master adorns them by His mercy.
He, who is yoked to another but the truth,
suffers nothing but pain, through the love of mammon.
Without the Guru, one knows not, what real pain and pleasure is. There is great misery in the love of worldly valuables.
They, to whose mind, the True Name is pleasing;
they practise the pre-destined virtuous deeds.
The True one they serve, the True one they contemplate, and the True one's meditation they are imbued with.
The Guru's service is sweet unto them.
Night and day they remain inebriated in the trance of celestial bliss.
Uttering the Lord's Name their mind becomes immaculate and they come to love the Guru's service.
Blissful are the persons, whom the True Guru attaches with the True Lord.
By His pleasure the Lord unites them with Himself.
The mortals whom the True Guru saves, are emancipated, Other are ruined through the love of mammon.
By the Guru's grace, the True Name is recognised.
He has no family, nor has he a mother.
The one alone is contained amidst all of all the beings, He is the mainstay.
Self-hood, I-am-ness and another's love.
None of these goes with the mortal. Such is the pre-ordained will of the Lord.
Through the True Guru, they who practise truth; Them the True One rids of the sorrow.
If Thou so bless, then alone obtain I everlasting peace.
Through the Guru's true instruction practise I the truth.
Within me is the True Lord and my mind and body have become true and my treasures are brimful with the Lord's devotion.
The Lord Himself sees all the issues commands.
His will, He Himself makes men obey.
Nanak, detached are they, who are imbued with the Name. Their mind, body and tongue are embellished with the Lord's Name.
Maru 3rd Guru.
The Lord, Himself created Himself and became manifest.
The One Lord is hiddenly contained amongst all.
God, the life of the world, takes care of all Whosoever knows himself, knows his Lord as well.
He, who created Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva, He Himself yokes each one to his task.
Whosoever is pleasing to Him; He blends with him Himself.
He is the One who, by the Guru's grace, realises the one alone.
The world is subject to coming and going.
Due to love of mammon, it thinks of many sins.
He, who realises the Guru's word ever praises the ever-stable True Lord.
Some are attached to the Root; they are blessed with peace.
They, who are attached to the branches, lose their life in vain.
The persons, who utter the Nectar Lord, bear the Fruit of Nectar.
I have no virtues, What words can I address unto Thee, O my Lord?
Thou see all and weigh them in Thy scale.
I live only as per Thy will to keep me. By the Guru's grace, I know but one Lord.
When such is Thy will, then Thou yoke me to Thine true task.
Shedding sins, merge I then in virtues.
The Pure True Lord alone abides in virtues, By the Guru's instruction is He realised.
Wherever I see, there I see Him alone.
Duality and evil-intellect, I have eradicated through the Name.
The one Lord is merged in Him singleness alone. He is imbued ever in His own glee.
The body lotus is withering away,
but the ignorant mind-ward knows not the Name.
Searching his body, By the Guru's grace, The mortal finds the Beauteous Lord, the life of the world.
The Lord delivers the body fortress seized by the sins,
and the mortal ever keeps the sire Lord enshrined within his mind.
He obtains the fruit that he desires and is imbued like the dye of madder.
The way-ward one utters Divine knowledge, but realises it not,
he comes again and again and finds no refuge.
The Divine Guru-ward, ever hymns the Lord's praise and knows the One alone, l all the ages through.
All deeds which the egocentric does lead to nothing but pain.
Within him is not the Lord's Name How can he enter into His court?
Within the mind of the God-conscious being, the True Name dwells and he serves ever the peace-giving Lord.
Wherever I see, there Thou are in all the places.
Through the Perfect Guru, I know all this.
Ever, ever contemplate I the Name of the Renowned Lord and with His Name, this soul of mine is imbued.
Imbued with the Name, the Name, the body becomes sanctified.
Bereft of the Name, the mortals are drowned to death, without water.
One comes and goes but realises not the Name. By the Guru's grace some do recognise the Name.
The Perfect True Guru has imparted me this understanding,
that without the Name, no one obtains emancipation.
Through the Name alone, man is blest with glory and he easily remains dyed in God's love.
The body village falls and becomes a heap of dust.
Without the Lord's Name the rotation of transmigration ends not.
He, who through the Guru, knows the One alone, He praises the True Lord and in the True lord he is absorbed.
On whom is His mercy, obtains the Lord,
and then the true Name comes to abide in his mind.
O Nanak, they who are imbued with the name of the Formless Lord, recognise their True God in the True court.
Maru Solhe 3rd Guru.
Thou Thyself are the Creator, who has created the whole world.
All the creatures are under Thine protection,
Thou Thyself are unmanifestly contained amongst all and are recognised through the Guru's hymns.
God's treasure are brimful with devotion,
He Himself blesses with the Name's meditation.
Thou do whatever Thou like, O True Lord, with Thee my mind is imbued.
Thou Thyself are the priceless gem and emerald.
In Thy scale, Thou thyself weigh with Thine grace.
All the sentient beings are in Thine refuge, He, to whom Thou show mercy, recognises his ownself.
He, on whom is Thy grace, O Lord;
he dies not, nor is he born, and his comings and goings are ended.
Day and night, he hymns the True Lord's praise and all The ages Through, he recognises the One alone.
The Lord has produced the love of wealth in the whole world,
including Brahma, Vishnu and all other gods.
They, who are pleasing to Thee, O Lord, are dedicated to Thy name and recognise Thee through gnostic understanding.
In vice and virtue the world is involved.
Weal and woe all entail great gains.
He, who becomes God-conscious and who by the Guru's grace realises the Name, is blessed with peace.
No one is potent to erase writ of deeds.
By the Guru's gospel, one obtains the door of salvation.
He, who stills his self conceit and realises his Lord, obtains the fruit, which is pre-destined for him.
In the love of worldly valuables, man's mind attaches not to God,
loving another, the mortal suffers great sorrow in the yonder world.
The hypocritical egocentrics stray in doubt and regret at the last moment.
In the God's will, man sings God's praise.
He is rid of all his sins and all his sorrows.
Immaculate is the Lord and Immaculate is His Gurbani and with the Lord, my mind is imbued.
He, unto whom the Lord shows grace, obtains God, the Treasure of virtues,
and he is rid of ego and I-am-ness.
God alone is the Giver of merits and demerits. Rare is the person, who understands this by the Guru's grace.
My Immaculate Lord is exceedingly Infinite.
When man reflects on the Guru's word, the Lord units him with Himself.
He Himself forgives and implants the True Name in the mortal and then his mind and body are imbued with True Lord.
Within the filthy mind and body is the light of the Infinite Lord.
He who reflects over Guru's gospel understands this.
He, who stills his self-conceit his soul becomes blotless for aye with his tongue he earns service of the Peace-giving Lord.
In the body fortress are many shops and bazars.
There-in is the Name of the exceedingly Infinite Lord.
Slaying his ego by the Guru's word, man recognises the Lord and ever looks beauteous in His court.
The jewel of the Name is Invaluable, Inaccessible and Infinite.
How can poor man appraise its worth?
By the Guru's Bani, its weight is weighed and it is through Gurbani alone, that it is realised in the mind.
The greatly voluminous Simritis and Shastras,
stretch out the extension of worldly love.
The fools read them, but know not their Lord, Some rare one knows Him by the Guru's grace.
Of Himself the Creator does and makes others do.
By means of the True Gurbani, He implants truth within the mortal.
It is through the Name that one is blessed with glory, O Nanak, and he knows the one Lord all the ages through.
Maru 3rd Guru.
Serve thou Him, the True Creator-Lord.
He is the Destroyer of distress through the Name.
He is Inaccessible and incomprehensible and one can evaluate. Him not Care-free Unfathomable He Himself is.
Of Himself the True Lord distributes truth.
Some persons, He Himself yokes to Truth.
They serve the True Lord, practice truth and through the Name merge in the True One.
His saints, the Lord unites and blends with Himself.
Attaches He Himself to His true devotion.
The mortal who through the True Gurbani, sings ever the praise of God. earns the profit of this life.
The Guru ward does business but he understands himself well.
Without the One Lord, he knows not any other.
True is the Banker and true His dealers, who buy up the merchandise of the Name.
Himself the Lord makes the beings and creates the world.
A few, He makes realise the Guru's word.
True are the persons, who serve their True Guru. The Guru snaps their noose of the Yama.
The Lord destroys, fashions, creates and embellishes the beings,
and attaches them with mammon, worldly love and duality.
The egocentrics wander about, ever act blindly and round their neck is the rope of Death's noose.
Of Himself, the Lord forgives and yokes one to the Guru's service.
Through the Guru's teaching, He enshrines the Name in man's mind.
Night and day he meditates on the True Name and earns the profit of the Name in this world.
Himself the Lord is true and true is His Name.
Through the Guru, He blesses man with the Name and enshrines it within his mind.
Beauteous are the persons, within whose mind the Lord abides and their heads are freed of entanglements.
Unfathomable and Unknowable is the Lord. He can be evaluated not.
By the Guru's grace, He is enshrined in the mind.
No one calls him to account, who praises the True Lord, the Giver of virtues.
Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva serve Him, the Lord.
They can know not the limit of the Invisible and inscrutable Lord.
They, unto whom Thou show Thy mercy, comprehend the Incomprehensible Lord by the Guru's grace.
The Perfect Guru has imparted understanding unto me,
and the One Name, I have enshrined in my mind.
I utter the Name and the Name do I contemplate. Entering into the Lord's presence sing I His praise.
The slave serves his Infinite Lord and obeys His command.
The mind-ward know not the worth of the Lord's will.
By the Lord's order, man is renowned, by His order, he is glorified and by His order; he becomes carefree.
By the Guru's grace, one recognises the Lord's will,
restrains the wandering mind and brings it back to the One Lord's House.
Imbued with the Name, he ever remains detached and the name jewel is enshrined within his mind.
He, the One Lord is contained in the whole world.
By the Guru's grace, He becomes manifest.
Immaculate are the ones, who praise their Lord and they abide in their own Home.
The devotees ever abide in Thy refuge, O Lord.
The Unfathomable and Unknowable God can be evaluated not.
The way you keep the mortal is as per Thy will. By the Guru's grace contemplates he the Name.
Ever, ever, O True Lord, become I pleasing to Thy praise.
This wise, O True, Become I pleasing to Thy mind.
Nanak makes a true supplication; O Lord bless Thou me with truth. that I may merge in it.
Maru 3rd Guru.
Very fortunate are they who serve the True Guru.
Night and day they remain attuned to the True Name.
The peace-giving Lord ever abides in their mind and happily cherish they the True Name.
When the Lord shows mercy, then He makes man meet the Guru,
and enshrines His Name in his mind.
The Bliss-giving God ever dwells in his mind and he blissfully remembers the Name in his mind.
When the Lord shows mercy, then unites he the man in His union,
and with the Name burns his pride an worldly love.
In the love of the one Lord, he ever remains emancipated and enters into strife with none.
Without serving the True Guru, One is enveloped in inky-darkness.
Without the Name, none ever crosses the world-ocean.
The supreme world-renouncers are they earn the profit of the True Name.
The creator Lord has pre-destined woe and weal,
and has Himself disseminated the love of another.
He who becomes resigned to the Guru's will, remains detached. What reliance can be reposed in the way-ward person?
They alone are mind-wards, who realise not the Name,
and understand not the quintessence of the Guru's Fear.
Without His fear, how can the Fear-free True Lord be attained to and the Yama shall draw out the mortal's breath.
The invulnerable Death's myrmidon can be slain not.
Through the Guru's word, he draws not near.
When he hears Gurbani then he runs away from after, lest the venerable Fear-free Lord put him to death.
Over all is the rule of the Sire Master.
What can this poor Death's courier do?
He is the obeyer of the Lord's will, carries out His order and under His command he breaths.
The Guru-ward realises that the True one has created the creation.
The Guru ward knows the Lord has extended the entire expanse.
He, who is God-conscious, understands the True Lord. Through the True Name, obtains he the peace.
The pious person knows the Lord to be the Recompenser of actions.
Through the Guru's instruction, he knows the Lord contained in the four ages.
The holy man dies not, nor is holy man born, It is the holy man who merges in the Lord.
The pious person sings the praise of Name of God,
who is Inaccessible, Incomprehensible and Carefree.
The One Lord's Name emancipates in the four ages. it is through the Guru's teaching that one deals in the Name.
The Guru-ward obtains peace and eternal bliss.
The Guru-ward enshrines the Lord's Name within his mind.
He who becomes God-conscious realises the Name and snaps the noose of evil intellect.
The Guru-ward originated from and merges in the True Lord.
He comes and goes not, nor is he cast into existences.
The Guru-wards ever remain imbued with the Lord's love and night an day earn profit.
The Lord-conscious saints look beauteous in the Lord's Court.
They are embellished with the True Gurbani and the Lord's Name.
Night and day they ever hymn the Lord's praise and with ease go to their own Home.
The Perfect Guru proclaims that,
night and day remain thou attuned to the Lord's meditation.
Ever immaculate is he, who celebrates the Lord's praise. Immaculate are the praises of the Sovereign Lord.
He, the True Lord, is the Giver of virtue.
By the Guru's grace, some rare one understand this.
Slave Nanak praises Name, the Name of he care-free Lord and blooms with glee.
Maru 3rd Guru.
Serve thou the Unapproachable, Infinite and Venerable Lord,
His limit and this and that end can be found not.
By the Guru's grace who ever meditates on the Lord in his mind; Within his mind abides infinite wisdom.
He, the one Lord is contained amidst all.
By the Guru's grace, becomes he manifest.
God, the Life of the world, Nurtures all and brings sustenance to all.
The Perfect Guru has imparted understanding unto me.
By His order, the Lord has created the whole world.
Whosoever submits to the Lord's will, is blessed with peace, The Lord's command is over the heads of the kings and emperors.
True is the True Guru and peerless is his word,
through his Gurbani, the world is saved.
Creating the world, the Creator Lord Himself sees it and blesses it with breath and sustenance.
Out of millions, God makes a few realise Him.
Imbued with the Guru's word, they enshrine affection for their Lord.
They ever praise their Bliss-giving Lord. The Lord forgives His saints and blesses them with His praise.
True are the persons who serve their True Guru.
The falsest of he false are they who die and are reborn.
The Inaccessible, Inapprehensible, Care free and Unfathomable Lord is the Lover of His saints.
The Perfect True Guru implants the truth in man.
Then through the True Gurbani, he sings ever the Lord's praise.
God, the Giver of virtue, works in all the hearts. On all the heads, writes he the date of their death (wedding).
By the Guru's grace, the Lord ever seems near.
He who serves the Lord, is satiated.
Night and day he reflects on the True word and is delighted through the True Name.
The ignorant blind man clings to many rituals,
he performs rituals through mind's obstinacy and is repeatedly cast into existences.
For the sake of poison he practises greed and avarice and through sin is involved in double mindedness.
The Perfect True Guru installs the Lord's devotion in the mortal.
Through the Guru's instruction, he fixes his mind with the God's Name.
God permeates his mind body and heart, and his soul is wetted with the meditation and the praise of the Lord.
My True Lord is the Destroyer of demons.
The Lord saves those, who by Guru's instruction perform His devotional service.
My Master is True, ever True. He is the Emperor over the head of all the Kings.
True are the saints, who are pleasing to Thy mind.
They sing His praise at the Lord's door and look embellished by the Guru's word.
The True Gurbani, hymn they night and day. The Lord's Name is the credit of the poor man.
They, whom Thou unite with Thy self, O Lord; Them Thou separate not again.
By the Guru's instruction, they praise Thee ever.
Thou alone, are the Lord over the heads of all. By the Guru's teaching the praise of the Name is lauded.
Without the Name, none can know Thee.
Thou Thyself narrate the unnarratable gospel.
For ever and aye, Thou, O Lord, are the Name, the beneficent Guru and the treasure of the Name's meditation.
My Creator Lord, Thou Thyself are the Maker of the world.
None can erase what is writ by Thee.
The Guru-ward, Thou Thyself bless with Thy Name. He is no longer confronted with doubt and reckoning.
The True saints remain standing at Thy door.
With love and affection utter (serve) they, Thine Name.
Nanak, detached are they, who are imbued with the Name and through the Name, their affairs are embellished.
Maru 3rd Guru.
My True Lord has staged a play.
He has created no one like unto the other.
Of Himself, making distinctions, he is pleased to see them, All the relishes He has put in the body.
The breath keeps it beat in the body and Thou Thyself circulate it.
Sensitiveness and stupefaction Thou has put in the body.
By the Guru's grace, man turns away from the world and he is blessed with the jewels of gnosis and the Name.
The Lord Himself has created darkness and light.
He alone pervades all. There is not any other.
He, who by the Guru's grace, knows himself; Blooms the lotus of his mind.
His depth and height, He Himself knows.
Other people utter and say what they hear with their ears.
He, who is divine, understands himself through the Guru and utters the true praise and commendation of the Lord.
Within the body is a priceless thing.
He Himself opens the shutters.
The Guru-ward instinctively in drinks the Nectar and quenches the fire of his desires.
All the flavours, the Lord has put in the body.
Guru's gospel, the Lord causes a few to understand.
One ought to search his within and praise the Lord. Why should he run without?
Without tasting, no one enjoys the Name's relish.
By the Guru's instruction, one in-drinks the Lord's Nectar.
In-drinking Nectar, the mortal acquires an immortal status and Nectar he enjoys through the Guru's gospel.
He, who recognises himself, understand all the virtues.
By the Guru's instruction, he repeats the Lord's Name.
Night and day, he ever remains imbued with the Name and is rid of mammon and worldly love.
By the Guru's service, one obtains everything,
and is rid of pride, egoism and self-conceit.
Of Himself, the Peace-giving Lord, shows mercy unto him and he is adorned with the Gurbani.
Nectar-sweet is the Guru's instruction and the Gurbani.
Night and day, utter I the God's Name.
Within whose heart, the True Lord-God abides; That heart of the mortal becomes immaculate.
His slaves serve and eulogise the Lord.
Ever imbued with the God's love, they hymn His praise.
The fragrance of sandal wood abides in the mind of him, whom the Lord forgives and unites with Himself.
By the Guru's instruction, he utters and praises of,
my Ineffable, True and care-free Lord.
God, the Giver of virtues, Himself unites him with His Name and he enjoys the Name-Nectar.
The erring mind-ward finds no place of rest.
He does the deeds, which are pre destined for him.
Imbued with poison, he searches poison and suffers the pain of birth and death.
Of Himself, the Lord praises Himself.
Thine virtues, O Lord, are within Thee, alone.
Thou Thyself are true and true is Thy Gurbani. Thyself Thou are Unseeable and Unfathomable.
Without the beneficent Guru, no one attains to the Lord,
though he may do lacs and millions of deeds.
By the Guru's grace, He abides in the man's mind and he songs the praise of the True Lord.
Those persons alone meet Him, whom the Lord unites with Himself.
They are embellished with the True Gurbani and the Name.
Slave Nanak, ever, sings the praise of the True Lord and singing His praise has merged in the virtues Lord.
Maru 3rd Guru.
He, the One Lord is ever Immovable and True.
Through the Perfect Guru alone this understanding is obtained.
They, who are wetted with the Lord's elixir, ever remember God and by the Guru's instruction, obtain the coat of humility.
Within their mind, they ever love the True Lord.
Through the Guru's word, God's Name seems sweet unto them.
They within whose mind, the Name, the embodiment of nine treasures, abides, forego gains of wealth.
Both the subjects and the kings are involved in evil intellect and duality.
Without serving the True Guru, they become not one with the Lord,
They who meditate on one Lord ever obtain peace and eternal becomes their rule.
From birth and death, none can save the mortal.
Coming and going both come from Him alone.
By the Guru's grace, remember thou ever the True Lord, Loftiness and emancipation, thou shall obtain from Him alone.
Truth and self-control man obtains from the True Guru's door.
Through the Name, he silences his ego and wrath.
Serving the True Guru, eternal bliss is obtained, Humility and contentment are all in his service.
Of pride and worldly attachment, the world is born.
Forgetting the Name, the entire world dies.
Without serving the True Guru, the Name is the true profit in the world.
True is the Lord's will which be comes pleasing through the Guru's word.
Being blessed with the Guru's word, the melody of the five sounds resounds within the man.
Through the True Name, one's deeds are ever embellished. What are one's deeds worth, without the Name?
in an instant man laughs and in an instant he bewails.
On account o love of another and evil-understanding his affairs are adjusted not.
Union and separation are writ by the Creator. By undoing, the past deeds can be undone not.
Practising the Guru's word, one is emancipated in life,
and ever remains blended with the Lord.
By the Guru's grace, man is blessed with glory and he is afflicted not with the malady of self-conceit.
Eating the various sorts of dainties, the mortal fattens his body,
and wears religious garbs, but acts not unto the Guru's instruction.
Within him is the supreme disease of sins, with which he greatly suffers and in the end sinks into ordure.
The mortal reads the Vedas and reading them enters into controversies.
Within his mind is the Lord, but His Name, he realises not,
He, who becomes Guru-ward, churns up Reality and his tongue relishes the Lord's elixir.
They, who wander outside by ignoring the thing within;
those blind egocentrics, taste not God's relish.
Imbued with another's savour, their tongue utters insipid words and it tastes not ever God's Nectar.
Doubt is the spouse of the body of an egocentric.
He dies of evil-understanding and is ever distressed.
He attaches his mind to lust, wrath and duality and he attains not to peace even in dream.
The body of the Guru-ward is gold like and God's Name is its spouse.
He ever enjoys dainties and loves his Lord.
In his body mansion he finds the mansion-less Lord and realising His will, merges in Him.
The beneficent Lord Himself gives gifts.
As against Him, no one has any power.
Of Himself the Lord forgives and unites one with His Name. Unfathomable is His Name.
The soul and body, all belong to Him, the Lord.
The True Lord alone is my Master.
O Nanak, through the Guru's word, I have attained to my Lord and uttering the Lord's Name, I have merged in Him.
Maru 3rd Guru.
The Lord's meditation is the tenth gate-music and the Vedas for the God-conscious being.
Infinite are the Divine knowledge and concentration of the God conscious being.
The Guru-ward does the deeds, which are pleasing to the Lord and the Guru-ward obtains the Perfect Lord.
The holy-man's mind turns back from the world.
The holyman plays the melody of the Guru's hymns.
The holyman is imbued with truth, remains detached and abides in his own Home.
I utter the Guru's ambrosial instruction.
I utter the Lord's truth through the True Gurbani.
My soul ever remains imbued with the love of the True Lord and I am merged in the Truest of the true.
Pure is the soul of the Guru-ward, who bathes in the True tank.
No filth attaches to him and he merges in the True One.
He ever practises the whole truth and the True devotion he keeps embedded in his mind.
Truth is in speech of the pious person and truth is in the pious person's eyes.
The pious person does the True deeds.
Day and night, he ever tells the truth and also makes others utter the truth.
True and sublime is the speech of the holyman.
The holyman utters nothing but truth.
The Holyman ever serves the Truest of the True and the holyman, preaches the Lord's Name.
He, who becomes the Guru-ward, obtains understanding,
and rids himself of pride, desire of wealth and doubt.
Through the Guru's sublime ladder, he mounts high and sings he the Lord's praise at the True Door.
The Guru-ward practises true self-discipline and does sublime deeds.
The Guru-ward obtains the door of salvation.
Through the loving adoration, he ever remains imbued with bliss and stilling self-conceit he merges in the Lord.
The Guru-ward searches his mind and utters what he sees there.
He ever enshrines love for the True Name.
He does only that, whatever is sweet unto the True Lord's mind and what He likes.
When he so wills, He makes man meet the True Guru.
When it pleases Him, then, enshrines He His Name within the man's mind.
By His pleasure, the Lord ever remains imbued with glee and by His pleasure, He enshrines it in the mortal's mind.
He, who does the deeds, through his mind's obstinacy, is destroyed.
Wearing many religious garbs, the Lord is pleased not.
Dyed with sins, the mortal earns pain and is lost in utter pain.
He, who becomes the Guru-ward, earns peace.
He, comes to know the mystery of birth and death.
He, who deems death and birth alike; He alone is pleasing to My Lord.
The God-conscious being, who remains dead in life, He becomes acceptable.
He knows that coming and going is in God's will.
He comes and goes not, nor suffers the pain and his soul merges in the supreme soul.
Very fortunate are they, who attain unto the True Guru,
and banish self-conceit and worldly love from within them.
Immaculate is their mind and no filth attaches to it again and they obtain gory in the True court.
The Lord Himself does and Himself causes others to do.
Of Himself, he establishes, disestablishes and watches all.
The service of the Guru-ward is pleasing to my Lord, He who hears the True Name is approved by Him.
The holyman practises nothing but truth.
Immaculate is the holyman, and no filth clings to him.
Nanak, they who reflect on the Name, are imbued therewith, It is through the Name, that merge they in the Name.
Maru 3rd Guru.
In His will, the Lord Himself created all the world.
He Himself establishes, disestablishes and glorifies.
The True one Himself administers all justice. The true Lord unites with Himself
The body has form of the fortress.
In it is extended the expanse of the love of mammon.
Without the Name, the body is a heap of ashes and ultimately dust mingles with dust.
The body is the invaluable citadel of gold,
wherein is permeating the Infinite Name.
The Guru-ward sings ever the Lord's praise and meeting his love, obtains peace.
The body is the Lord's mansion. God Himself embellished it.
Within that abides the Sire Lord, the enemy of ego.
By the Guru's instruction the merchants deal with Him and by His grace the Lord unites them with Himself.
He alone is pure, who banishes wrath,
understands the Name and reforms himself.
The creator-Lord Himself does and makes others do and He Himself comes in the mind.
Immaculate and unique is the Lord's devotional service.
Reflecting on the Name, the soul and the body are washed clean.
He, who night and day is ever Imbued with the Lord's love, him the Lord, in His mercy, yokes to His devotional service.
In this place of the soul, the mind wanders about.
Abandoning peace like straw, it suffers great pain.
Without meeting with the True Guru, it finds no refuge. The Lord Himself has set afoot this play.
Infinite is the Lord. Of Himself he reflects on Himself.
He Himself provides the occasion to do sublime deeds.
What service can the poor creature perform? Granting pardon, the Lord unites man with Himself.
The Perfect one, Himself unites one with the True Guru,
and through his instruction he makes him a very powerful warrior.
The Guru fixes man's mind with the True Lord, who blessing him with glory, unites him with Himself.
Within our very home is He, the True Lord.
Rare is the One, who realises this by the Guru's grace.
He within whose mind the Name treasure abides, utters the Name with his tongue.
Man wanders through foreign countries, but searches not his innerself.
Bewitched by worldly valuables, he is bound down by the myrmidon of death.
His death's noose snaps not ever and through duality he wanders in existences.
There can be no true worship, penance and self-control,
so long as one acts not unto Guru's instruction.
Attaining to the Guru's instruction, one obtains truth and through truth, he merges in the True Lord.
Very powerful are lust and wrath in this world.
Through them, the mortal does many deeds and they all add to his miseries.
They, who serve the True Guru, obtain peace and the True Guru unites them with the True Lord.
The air, water and fire make the body.
The love of wealth is contained in all the bodies.
When men know Him, who has created them, they are purged of the love of wealth.
Some are involved in the love of riches and self-conceit.
Through ego, they deem themselves to be everything.
They think not of Death's courier and in the end regretfully quit the world.
He alone knows the way, who has created the beings.
He, whom the Supreme Guru blesses with the Lord's Name, does realise Him,
Slave Nanak makes a supplication, then attaches he his mind to the Lord's True Name.
Maru 3rd Guru.
From the very beginning and the beginning of ages, the Lord of mercy is the Giver of the beings.
He is realised through the Perfect Guru's word.
They who serve Thee, merge in Thee, O Lord, Thou Thyself unite in Thine union.
O my Inaccessible and Incomprehensible Lord, Thine worth can be ascertained not.
All the creatures seek Thy refuge.
As Thy will, Thou so drive them. Thou thyself putt them on thy path.
The True Lord is and He shall also be.
He Himself creates. There is not an other.
The Peace-giving Lord takes care of all and Himself provides them sustenance.
O Unfathomable, Unknowable, Unseeable and Infinite Lord,
no one knows thine bounds.
Only Thou know Thyself and through the Guru's instruction, Thou reveal Thyself.
The under-worlds, the universes, the countries and the form;
over all is or within them works thine all-powerful command.
In His will he creates, in His will He destroys and in His will he Unites in His union.
He, who knows Thy order, praises Thy order.
O Inaccessible, Incomprehensible, and care-free Lord!
As is the understanding Thou give, so do I become. Thou Thyself reveal Thy Name unto me.
By night and day, the age is wearing off.
Both night and day are the witnesses unto the loss.
The blind and silly egocentric contemplates not his Lord and death roars over his head.
Clinging to the Guru's feet man's mind and body are cooled.
His heart's doubt is dispelled and flees his fear.
He is ever in bliss, sings the praise of the True Lord and utters the True Gurbani.
He, who knows Thee as the Builder of destiny;
he, of perfect fortune, come to recognise Thee through the Guru's hymns.
Verily, He, the Truest of the True Lord, is his caste and honour, Silencing his ego the Lord unites him with Himself.
Relentless is the man, who is attached to duality.
Lost in doubt, the unfortunate one wanders about.
If God's grace be upon him, then serves he the True Guru and easily obtains peace.
The Lord of Himself has created the eighty-four lakhs of species.
It is in Human life alone, that one can enshrine the Great God's meditation.
Without the Lord's meditation, he abides in ordure and in ordure he falls again and again.
When God's grace is upon the man, then devotion unto the Guru is implanted in him.
Without God's grace, how can he attain unto the Guru?
The Creator-Lord Himself does and causes everything to be done. As he wills, so drives He the mortals.
The Simritis and Shashtras know not His limit.
The blind fool recognises not the Reality.
The Creator Lord Himself does and makes others do and He Himself strays one in doubt.
Of Himself, the Lord causes everything to be done,
and of Himself he yokes each to his task.
He Himself establishes, disestablishes and watches all. By the Guru's grace, He reveals Himself unto the man.
The True Lord is Unfathomable and deep.
If I praise Him ever, then alone is my soul comforted.
The worth of the Unapproachable and Incomprehensible Lord can be appraised not, By the Guru's grace, abides He in the mind.
Himself the Lord is detached other people are involved in affairs.
By the Guru's grace, only a few understand Him.
Nanak, through the Guru's gospel, the Name abides in man's mind and the Lord unites him in His union.
Maru 3rd Guru.
For thirty-six ages Thou did spread inky darkness,
O creator-Lord, thou Thyself know that state.
What can anyone else say and what can he dilate upon? Thou alone can evaluate Thy worth.
The one Lord has created the whole world.
All the play and show are the manifestation of Thy glory, O God.
The True Lord Himself creates all the distinctions and Himself breaks and builds.
The juggler has staged a play.
Through the Perfect Guru one sees it.
He, who ever remains detached by the Guru's gospel, His mind is attuned to the True Lord.
The musical instruments of the body ring.
God the player, Himself Plays upon them
Through every being, the breath is uniformly passing and blessed with breath, all the instruments ring.
Whatever the creator does, that assuredly comes to pass.
By the Guru's instruction, man's self-conceit is dispelled.
By the Guru's grace the Lord blesses some with glory and they remember nothing but the Name.
No other profit is so great as the Guru's service.
The Name abides in my mind and the Name praise I.
Ever peace-giving is the Name of the Name-incarnate Lord. It is through the Name that one earns profit.
Without the Name, there is all misery in the world.
The more the evil deeds one does, the more the sins become.
Without serving the Name, how can peace be obtained? Without the Name, the mortal suffers torture.
God Himself does and Himself causes everything to be done.
Rare is the one, unto whom He reveals Himself through the Guru's grace.
He who becomes the Guru-ward, breaks his bonds and attains to the home of salvation.
He, who reckons accounts, burns in this world.
His doubt and sin are dispelled not ever.
He, who becomes God conscious, abandons calculations and through the True Name merges in the True Lord.
If God blesses with truth, then alone one can attain to it.
By the Guru's grace, it becomes manifest.
Imbued with love, he who praises the True name; By the Guru's grace, he obtains peace.
The loved Name is my worship, penance and self-control.
God, the Destroyer, destroys sins.
Through the Lord's Name, the body and mind are cooled and one easily gets absorbed in the Lord.
Mentally filthy are they, within whom there is avarice. They attach filth to others, as well.
They do dirty deeds and suffer pain.
They deal in nothing but falsehood, tell lies and come to grief.
Rare is the One, who enshrines the Immaculate Gurbani in his mind.
By the Guru's grace, his doubt is removed.
Day and night, he walks in the Guru's will and remembering the Name obtains peace.
He, the True Lord, is of Himself the Creator.
He Himself creates and destroys.
He, who gets resigned to the Guru's will, ever praises his Lord and meeting with the True Lord, obtains bliss.
Inspite of making various efforts, the sexual desire is overcome not.
Everyone is burning in the fire of lust and wrath.
Serving the True Guru, one overcomes his mind. Subduing the mind, one merges in the Supreme Mind.
Sense of mine and thine, Thou Thyself has created.
All the creatures belong to Thee and Thou alone has created all the beings.
O Nanak, contemplate thou ever the Lord's Name. Through the Guru's instruction, the Lord Guru's instruction, the Lord abides in man's mind.
Maru 3rd Guru.
The Beneficent, Venerable Lord is Inaccessible and Unfathomable.
He has not even an iota of avarice. Self-dependent is He, the Lord.
None can reach up to Him. He Himself unites in His union.
Whatever He does, that for sure come to pass.
Without Him, there is no other Giver.
whomsoever the Lord blesses with the Name's gift, He alone obtains it. By means of the Gurbani He unites man with Himself.
The fourteen worlds are Thine bazars.
The True Guru shows the Bazars together with the mind.
Anyone who deals in the Lord's Name; Through the Guru's word, he attains to the Lord.
Serving the True Guru, man obtains poise and pleasure,
and the Lord of the universe comes to abide in his mind.
Day and night, he instinctively remains devoted unto the Lord. The Lord, of Himself makes him perform His devotional service.
They, who are separated from the True Guru, writhe in pain.
They are wholly in sorrow and are belaboured night and day.
Their foreheads are blackened. They obtain not their Lord's mansion and In sorrow they suffer for their sorrow.
Very fortunate are they who serve the True Guru.
Instinctively enshrine they true love for the Lord.
They ever practise nothing but truth and the Guru unites them in the union of the True Lord.
He alone obtains truth, whom the True Lord gives.
Within him is truth and his doubt is dispelled.
The True On e is Himself the Guru a of truth he alone obtains the truth, whom He blesses.
He, Himself, is the creator of all.
Hardly anyone, whom He, of Himself, instructs, understands Him.
He Himself forgives and blesses with glory. Of Himself, He unites one in His union.
In taking pride, man loses his life.
Hereafter, too, the love of mammon leaves him not.
In yonder world, death's mymidon calls him to account and presses him like the milful of sesame in the oil press.
By perfect destiny, the Guru's service is performed.
If God's grace be upon one, then serves he Him.
Death's courier comes not near him and obtains he peace in the True mansion.
They alone are in peace, who are pleasing to Thee, O Lord,
and they, through perfect destiny, are attached to the Guru's service.
All glory is in Thy Hand. O Lord, whomsoever thou bless, he alone obtains it.
It is through the Guru, that the mortal obtains inner light,
and the wealth of the Name is enshrined within his mind.
The jewel of gnosis ever illumines his mind and darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
The blind, ignorant one are yoked to another.
they, the unfortunate ones, are drowned to death without water.
Quitting the world see not the Lord's home and bound down at the Yama's door, they suffer pain.
Without serving the True Guru, one is emancipated not.
Let anyone enquire from the divines and contemplators.
Whosoever serves the True Guru; He is blessed with honour and is embellished in the True court.
He, who serves the True Guru; him the Lord blends with Himself.
Effacing his worldly attachment, he enshrines affection for the True Lord.
The divine dealers ever deal in truth and earn the profit of the Name.
Of Himself, the creator is the doer and the Prompter.
Only that man is emancipated, who dies through the Name.
Nanak, the Name then abides within his mind and he meditates on the Name of the Name worthy Lord.
Maru 3rd Guru.
O Lord, Thou do what Thou want to do.
Rare is the one, who walks in the Lord's will.
He, who submits to the Lord's will, is blessed with peace. It is in the Lord's will that one obtains bliss.
To the Guru-ward, Thy will is pleasing.
Practising truth, he easily obtains peace.
Good many desire to walk in the Lord's will. He Himself makes man surrender to His will.
He, who walks in Thy will, comes and meets with Thee, O Lord.
He who is pleased with Thy will, merges in Thee.
Great is the glory of accepting God's will Rare is the One, whom He makes submit to His will.
When it pleases Him, then He introduces one to the Guru,
and he obtains the wealth of the Name, by the Guru's grace.
In Thy will, O Lord Thou has created the whole world. Whomsoever Thou so bless, to him Thy will is pleasing.
Thy blind mind-ward practices cleverness.
He surrenders not to the Lord's will and suffers great sorrow.
He strays in doubt and continues coming and going. He attains not ever to the mansion and presence of the Lord.
The True Guru unites one with the Lord and blessed him with glory.
The Lord, from the very beginning, has enjoyed the True Guru's service.
If man serves the True Guru, then is he blessed with the Name. It is through the Name alone that he obtains peace.
Everything wells up from the Name and everything perishes through the Name.
By the Guru's grace, man's mind and body are pleased with the Name.
Uttering the Lord's Name, the tongue is wafted with delight. Through the Lord's affection, one obtains celestial bliss.
Rare is the one, who finds within his body's mansion the mansion of the Lord.
By the Guru's instruction, he fixes His mind with the True Lord.
Whosoever the Lord blesses with truth, he alone obtains the truth and merges in nothing but truth.
Forgetting the Name, man's body and mind suffer sorrow.
Through the love of riches, he earns nothing but disease.
Without the Name His mind and body are leprous and he is assigned an abode in hell.
They, who are imbued with the Name; immaculate is their body.
Sanctified is their swan-soul and in their Lord's love they ever remain in bliss.
Praising the Name, they procure eternal peace and abide in their own home.
Everyone traffics and trades.
Without the Lord's Name, the world suffers total loss.
Naked the mortal comes, naked goes he and without the Name suffers he sorrow.
He alone obtains the Name, whom Lord blesses.
By the Guru's instruction, he abides the Name within his mind.
By the Guru's grace, the Name abides in his mind and he reflects only on the Name.
Everyone, who is come in this world, longs for the Name.
They alone obtain the Name, who had done, in the past, good deeds as writ by the Primal Lord.
Very lucky are they, who attain unto the Name. By the Guru's gospel, God unites them with Himself.
Supremely beauteous is the fortress of the body.
Sitting there in, the Lord gives thought to Himself.
He administers true justice and deals only in truth. One remembering Him, obtains an eternal abode.
Within one are the beauteous houses and the illustrious places.
Through the Guru's grace, some rare one, attains unto the said places.
If one keep the companionship of these homes and places and praises the True Lord, then the True God is enshrined in his mind,
My creator Lord has made such a make.
Within this body, He has put every thing.
Nanak, they, who deal in the Lord's Name, are imbued with His love. Rare is the one who by the Guru's grace, obtains the Name.
Maru 3rd Guru.
Reflecting on the Name, the body becomes like gold.
There abides God, who has no limit or bounds.
Night and day serve thee thy God and utter the true Gurbani, for it is through the Guru's word, that the adorable Lord is met.
I am a sacrifice unto those who remember God.
By Guru's instruction associate I with their society.
With the dust of their feet, anoint I, my face and forehead and sitting in the saints congregation sing I the Lord's praise.
If I am pleasing to the Lord-God, then alone sing I the Lord's praise.
Through the beauteous Gurbani, God's Name is enshrined within my mind.
The Guru's word is heard in the four corners of the world and through it, the mortal merges in True Name.
True is the person, who searches within himself,
and by Guru's instruction sees the Lord with his eyes.
By the Guru's instruction, he applies the salve of gnosis to his eyes, the Merciful Master, in His mercy, unites him with Himself.
Through great good fortune I am blessed with this body,
and in this human life I have fixed my mind on God.
Without the Name, all is utter darkness, Rare is the one, who understands this through the Guru's grace.
Why have some come into this world to waste away their human life?
The egocentric are attached to another's love.
This opportunity comes not to them again and they regret, when their foot slips.
Immaculate becomes the body Through the Guru's word.
Within that abides the True Lord the ocean of virtues.
He, who sees the Truest of the true in all the places; He hears the True name and enshrines it within his mind.
Self conceit and anxiety are effaced through the Guru's word.
So, keep thou clasped, thy heart and mind to the Reverend Lord.
He, who through the Guru's instruction, ever praises the True Lord, is blessed with bliss and meets with Him.
He alone meditates on the Lord, whom he Himself makes meditate.
Through the Guru's word, the Lord comes to abide in the mortal's mind.
God Himself sees and Himself understands the mortals and Himself merges them in Himself.
He alone understands the mystery, who has put the Name commodity in the mind.
By the Guru's instruction, the mortal knows himself.
Immaculate is the person, who understands his ownself and preaches God's word to others.
Sanctified is this human body and frame,
which through Guru's instruction contemplates the Lord, the ocean of virtues.
Imbued with love he, who ever, sings the Lord's praise and utters. His virtues, merges into he virtuous Lord.
This body becomes the source of all the sins,
when strayed by doubt, it loves another.
It contemplates not the Lord and ever comes to grief, without remembering God, it suffers pain.
He, who serves the True Guru, is approved.
Immaculate are his body and swan-soul and in the Lord's court, he is known as true.
He serves God, enshrines God within his mind and looks beauteous singing the God's praise.
Without good destiny, the Guru's service is not performed.
The mind-wards go astray and die bewailing.
They, on whom is the Guru's grace; Their the Reverend Lord blends with Himself.
In the body fortress are the solidly built bazars,
the Guru word purchases the ware there from and takes care of that.
Meditating on the Lord's Name, day and night, he attains unto the sublime status.
The True Lord himself is the Giver of peace.
It is through the Perfect Guru's word, that he is recognised.
Nanak praises the True Name, It is through perfect destiny, that some rare one attains unto the Lord.
Maru 3rd Guru.
The formless Lord has created the world.
Through his will, the Lord has created the love of worldly valuable.
The Creator Lord Himself stages all the plays. So hearing of the True Lord, enshrine thou Him within thy mind.
The Lord of wealth has given birth to the being of three dispositions,
and uttered the four Vedas to Brahma.
Creating the years, months, week days and the lunar days, Their comprehension, the Lord has imparted into the world.
Sublime are the Guru's service and good deeds.
Keep thou the Lord's Name clasped to thy heart.
The Gurbani pervades the whole world and through this word, the Lord's Name is obtained.
Man reads the Vedas night and day but picks up quarrels.
He contemplates not Name and is bound down by the death's courier.
Through the love of another, he ever suffers pain and strays in the three modes and doubt.
The Guru-ward loves the one Lord alone,
and the three phased desire, he silences in the mind.
Through the True Name, he is ever emancipated the eschews the love of worldliness.
They, who are pre destined to be imbued; They are now imbued with the Lord's love.
By the Guru's grace, they are inebriated with equipoise.
By ever serving the True Guru, they attain to their Lord and of Himself. He unites them with Himself.
Through the Love of the world, one has to wander in existences.
Attached to another's love, one comes to grief.
The crimson colour lasts for a few days. It makes no delay in wearing off.
This soul, one should dye in the Lord's fear and love.
Dyed this wise, man merges in the True Lord.
Through perfect good fortune, some rare one obtains this dye, It is by the Guru's instruction, that this colour is adopted.
The mind-ward takes great pride on himself.
In the Lord's court, he attains not honour, ever.
Attached to duality, he wastes away his life and without under standing, he comes to grief.
My Lord has hid Himself midst all.
Caused to meet, through the Guru's grace, one meets with his Trade.
He, who traffics in it, is blessed with the invaluable Name.
This body's worth, no one has ever found.
My Master has made this make.
He, who becomes God-conscious; reforms his body and the Lord unites that person with Him.
It is within the body that man loses and within the body, he gains.
The Guru-ward searches the carefree Lord.
Trading in the Lord, the Guru-ward is blessed with eternal peace and easily blends with his Lord.
True is the Lord's mansion and true are His treasures.
God, the Giver, Himself gives His gifts.
The Guru-ward praises his peace-giving Lord and uniting his mind with Him, comes to know His worth.
Within the body is the Name commodity. Its worth can be found not.
Unto the Guru-ward, God Himself grants glory.
He alone, to whom belongs the body-shop, knows this commodity the Guru-ward, whom the Lord blesses with this Name-commodity, regrets not.
The Reverend Lord is contained amongst all.
By the Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Of Himself, the Lord unites in His union. Through the Name one merges in the Lord.
Of Himself, the True Lord unites man with His Name,
and through the Name, drives out doubt from within him.
Nanak, when one is blessed with the glory of the Name, he obtains peace.
Maru 3rd Guru.
Unapproachable, Unapprehensible and self-dependent is my Master.
He Himself is Merciful, Boundless and Unfathomable.
None can reach unto Him, but he is met with by the Guru's instruction.
He alone serves Thee, O Lord, who is pleasing to Thee.
By the Guru's instruction, merges he in the True Lord.
Night and day, he ever utters God's praise and his tongue loves the Lord's elixir.
They who die through the Name, glorify their death.
God's virtues, they enshrine in their mind and heart.
Clinging to the Lord's Feet, their life becomes fruitful and they are rid of the love of another.
The reverend Lord unites and blends the mortal with Himself.
Through the Guru's instruction, ego is dispelled.
They, who night and day, ever remain imbued with the Lord's meditation, earn profit in this world.
What virtues of Thine, O Lord, should I utter? I can utter them not.
Limitless and boundless are Thou, O Lord. Thine worth can be appraised not.
When the Peace-giving Lord Himself shows mercy, the virtuous one merges in virtues.
Worldly love is all spread out in this world.
The ignorant egocentric gropes in inky darkness.
Running after worldly affairs, man wastes his life and without the name, comes to grief.
If God's grace be upon man, then he attains the True Guru,
and burns off the filth of pride with the Lord's Name.
Immaculate becomes his soul with the light of the gem of gnosis and his darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
Numberless are Thine Names, O Lord. Their worth can be evaluated not.
God's True Name, enshrine, I within my mind.
Who can evaluate Thee, O my Lord? Thou Thyself are absorbed in Thine bliss.
Priceless, Boundless and Infinite is Thy Name, O Lord.
No one can ever weigh it.
Thou Thyself judge a person and when one meets your judgement through Guru's word, then.
I, Thy slave, perform Thy service and supplicate before Thee, O Lord.
Thou seat me close to Thee and unite me with Thyself.
Thou are the Peace-giving Lord of all being, It is through perfect destiny, that Thou are contemplated.
If man practises the Truth; This includes continence, chastity and self-control.
If the mortal sings God's praise, this mind of his becomes immaculate.
In this world of poison, he obtains Nectar Such is the Pleasure of my Reverend Lord.
He alone understands the Lord, whom He instructs.
Singing God's praise, one's soul is sanctified.
His I-am-ness and mine-ness, he silences and stills, and easily attains unto the True Lord.
Without good action, good many others wander in existences.
They are born to die again and gain and their gyration ends not.
Imbued with the poisonous sins and attains not peace ever.
The guiser wears many religious garbs.
Without the Name, none has stilled his ego.
If man remains dead in life, then is he emancipated and merges in True Name.
Spiritual ignorance and desire burn this human body.
Alone his fire is extinguished who acts unto the Guru's word.
He silences his wrath and his body and mind are cooled and stilling his self-conceit, he merges in the Lord.
True is the Lord and true is His glory.
By the Guru's grace, only a few attain to this Divine glory.
Nanak makes a supplication, It is through the Name, that one merges in the Name-incarnate Lord.
Maru 3rd Guru.
By Thy grace, O Lord, unite Thou Thine devotees with Thee.
Attuned to Thee, Thine devotees ever sing Thy praise.
It is in Thine refuge, that they are saved, O Creator-Lord. Thou Thyself unite them in thy union.
Beauteous is the meditation of the Perfect Lord.
It is pleasing to Thy mind, O Lord, and through it bliss dawns within one.
He, whose mind and body are imbued with the true devotional service, fixes his mind with the True Lord.
In the fire of self-conceit, the body ever burns.
It is through the Lord's grace, that one meets with the Perfect Guru.
Through the Lord's Name, the internal fire of ignorance is quenches and one finds bliss through the True Guru.
The blind perverse person does blind deeds.
He is great trouble and wanders in species.
His noose of death is never snapped and he suffers immense sorrow in the end.
Through the Name, man's comings and goings are ended,
and he keeps the True Name enshrined in his mind.
He dies through the Guru's word, subdues his mind and silencing his ego, merges in the Lord.
In coming and going, the world is wasted away.
Without the True Guru, no one becomes eternally stable.
Through the Name, man's mind is illumined, he abides in peace and his light blends with the Supreme Light.
The five demons ever think of evil.
The world is all but mammon's love.
If man serves the True Guru, then is he emancipated and overcomes the five demons.
Without the Guru, there is the darkness of worldly love,
and one is drowned over again.
If man meets with the True Guru, truth is implanted in him and the True Name becomes pleasing to his mind.
True is the Lord's door and true is His court.
The True ones serve their Lord, through the loved, Gurbani.
Singing the True lords praise through true melody, I am absorbed in the True one.
Rare is the person, who finds the Lord's mansion within his body home.
By the Guru's instruction, he acquires peaceful temperament.
There, in the Lord's mansion. Sorrow and separation cling to him not and he easily merges in the Lord.
The evil persons abide in duality.
Those thirsty ones continue wandering in great worldly love.
They sit in evil society, ever suffer sorrow and earn nothing but pain.
Without the True Guru, there is no Divine congregation,
and without the Name no one has ever ferried across.
He, who instinctively day and night utters the Lord's praise; his light merges in the Supreme Light.
The body is the tree and the bird of the soul abides in it.
If it abides in the Guru's word, it then, in-drinks the Nectar.
If flies not ever, neither comes, nor goes; rather secures an abode in its own home.
They, who search their body, reflect on the Name,
discard the poisonous potion of worldly love and dispel their doubt.
The Bliss-giving Lord, of Himself shows merit unto them and unites them in His union.
Ever close at hand is the Lord. Deem Him not afar.
Through the Guru's instruction realise thou Him all-too-near.
They heart-lotus shall bloom the ray of the Lord's light shall illumine thy mind and the Guru shall evidently show thee the Lord.
He, the True is Himself the Creator.
He Himself slays and gives life There is not any other not any other.
Nanak, it is through the Lord's Name, that one is blessed with glory, eradicating his self-conceit, the mortal obtains peace.
Maru Solhe 4th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The True one Himself embellishes the Guru-wards.
They think not of any task other than God's.
The True Lord dwells within the mind of the Guru-wards and they easily merge in the True One.
Within the minds of all abides the True Lord.
By the Guru's grace, man merges in the Lord.
Invoking the Great Guru, I have obtained eternal peace and my mind is attuned to the Guru's Feet.
The True Guru is the giver of gnosis and the True Guru is worthy of worship.
I serve the True Guru and not another.
From the True Guru, I have obtained the wealth of the jewel of the Name and the True Guru's service pleasing to me.
Without the True Guru, they who are attached to another;
those unfortunate ones come, go and die of wandering.
Nanak, they too are emancipated, who even afterwards abide in the Supreme Guru's refuge.
Ever true is the love of the God-conscious beings.
I beg the Unweighable Name from the True Guru.
O my Reverend Lord, be merciful, shower thine benediction on me and keep Thou me in the Guru's refuge.
The True Guru has dropped the immortalising Nectar into my mouth.
Whereat the Lord became manifest within my tenth gate.
There, in the tenth gate, resounds the celestial strain of the utterance of the Guru's word and one easily merges in the Lord.
They, who are so pre-ordained by the Creator Lord;
night and day pass uttering the Guru's Name.
Without the True Guru, one is emancipated not, so attach thou thy mind to the Guru's feet.
He, with whom the Lord is pleased, him He Himself blesses with His Name.
By the Guru's grace one obtains the Name's wealth,
When the Lord showers His benediction, He blesses with His Name and Nanak merges in the Name.
He, within whose mind, the jewel of gnosis becomes manifest,
easily attains to the wealth of the Lord's Name.
This glory of the Name, I have received from the Guru unto my True Guru, I am ever a sacrifice.
As with the rising of the sun, the night's darkness is dispelled,
so through the Guru-given priceless gem of the Name, spiritual ignorance is effaced.
The True Guru is an exceedingly grand jewel of Divine knowledge. Attaining unto the Lord's grace, one is blessed with bliss.
By the Guru's grace, one obtains the Name and his glory becomes manifest.
In the four ages and amongst all the men, he is acclaimed immaculate and good.
Imbued with nothing but the Name, he obtains peace and remains attuned to the Name.
It is through the Guru, that man receives the Name.
He then wakes in peace and sleeps in peace.
O Nanak, the pious person contemplates the Name and merges and is absorbed in the Name.
In the mouth of the saints is the ambrosial Gurbani.
By the Guru's grace, they repeat and utter the God's Name.
Invoking Lord God, their heart ever blooms and they attach their mind to the Lord's feet.
I am ignorant and unwise and have no wisdom.
Through the True Guru, I have obtained understanding within my mind.
My Reverend Lord, be compassionate, show mercy unto me and yoke me to the service of the True Guru.
They, who know the True Guru; they realise the One Lord.
The Peace giving Lord is pervading all over.
Understanding my ownself, I have obtained the supreme status and my attention is absorbed in the Lord's service.
They, who are blessed with glory by the Primal Lord;
The True Guru dwells in their mind and they are attuned to him.
Of Himself, God, the Giver of life to the world meets them and they, O Nanak, merge in his Being.
Maru 4th Guru.
The Unapproachable and Unapprehensible Lord is ever Imperishable.
He, who abides in the mind is contained all over.
Without Him, there is no other Giver. That Lord, worship ye, O Mortals.
He, whom the saviour Lord saves;
him no one can slay.
So serve ye such Lord, O saints, sublime is whose Gurbani.
When it seems, that there is nothing in any place,
even then my creator-Lord is fully pervading there.
He makes the dry flower forth again, Therefore contemplate thou the Lord, wondrous are whose plays.
He, who understands the anguish of the beings;
unto that Lord, I am a sacrifice.
O man, make thou supplication before Him, who is the Giver of all the comforts.
He who knows not the mind's state;
unto that unwise one, say thou not anything.
Quarrel thou not with the fool O mortal but meditate on the Lord. Who is the Giver of the immortal status.
Care thou not, Thy care lies with thine Creator Lord.
God gives to all the creatures of water and land.
My Lord gives unasked for bounties, He sustains even the stone insects locked in stones.
Rest thou not thy hope in thine friends, sons and brothers.
Rest thou not thy hope on any king or foreign business.
Without the Lord's Name, none is thy helper, so remember thou thy world-Lord.
Night and day meditate thou on the Lord's Name.
He shall fulfil all thine hopes and desires.
O slave Nanak, utter thou the Name of God, the Destroyer of dread and thy life night shall pass in peace and poise.
He, who serves the Lord, attains unto bliss.
He is easily absorbed in the Lord's Name.
He, who seeks His refuge; his honour the Lord preserves, Go and consult thou the Vedas and Puranas.
That man alone attaches to the Lord's service, whom He Himself blesses.
Through the Guru's instruction, doubt and dread are dispelled.
In his very home he ever lives detached, as the lotus flower lives in water.
In self-conceit, one's service is approved not.
He is born to die and come and go over and over again.
Perfect is that penance and that service, which are pleasing to the mind of my God.
What merits of Thine should I utter, O my Master?
Thou are the Inner-knower of all the beings.
I ask for alms from Thee, O my Creator Lord and utter I Thine Name Night and day.
Some take pride on their power of speech.
Some posses the power of royal court and wealth at their command.
Without God, I have no other prop and support. O my Creator-Lord, save, though the meek one.
If it pleases Thee, O Lord; Thou bless with honour to the meek.
Many others uselessly prate and continue coming and going.
They, whose side Thou take, O Lord; their speech, Thou render the most sublime.
They who ever contemplate the Lord's Name;
By the Guru's grace they attain to the supreme status.
They, who serve their God, are blessed with peace. Without the Lord's service, one regrets in the end.
Thou O God, the Lord of the world are contained amongst all.
He alone remembers God, on whose forehead is the Guru's hand.
Entering the Lord's sanctuary, remember I the Lord. Servant Nanak is the slave of the Lord's slaves.
Maru Solhe 5th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
He, who by His power has installed the earth,
who has poised the sky on the feet of his will,
and who creating the fire has locked it in wood; He, my Lord, shall protect thee, O brother.
He, who provides sustenance to all the creatures,
and is Omnipotent to do all the deeds and who remains detached,
and who establishes and disestablishes in an instant. That Lord is thy helper, O man.
He, who cherishes thee in the mother's womb,
and who biding with thee takes care of thee with every breath and morsel.
Ever, Ever meditate thou on that Beloved, great is whose greatness.
The sovereigns and nobles, in an instant, He reduces to worms.
Patronising the poor, the Lord makes them kings.
He, the Lord is the Destroyer of ego and the support of all. His worth can be told not.
He alone is honorable and he alone is wealthy,
within whose mind abides the Auspicious Lord.
He alone is my mother, father, son, kinsman and brother, who has created this world.
I have sought the Lord's protection and I fear naught.
Associating with the saints, I shall assuredly be saved.
He, who meditates on his Creator Lord through thought, word and deed suffers not punishment ever.
He within whose mind and body is permeated God, the treasure of virtues,
wanders not in birth, death and existences.
When, man is sated and satiated with the Name, his woe vanishes and weal abides within his mind.
He, the Lord, is my Friend.
He is the searcher of hearts and pervades all spaces and interspaces.
Remembering and contemplating the Perfect Lord, I am rid of care and calculations.
God's Name is the power of lacks and millions of arms.
With him is the wealth of the celebration of the Lord's praise.
In His mercy, the Lord has blessed me with the sword of divine knowledge and launching an attack, I have killed the demons.
Instead of uttering other names, utter thou the Lord's Name.
Winning the life game thou shall come to abide in thy own home.
Singing the Lord's Praise, saturated with His love, thou shall (fall not into) or (see not) the eighty-four lacs of hells.
The Lord is the Saviour of the beings of the continents and universes.
He is lofty, Unfathomable, Unapproachable and Infinite.
On whomsoever the Lord showers His benediction; That man alone mediates on Him.
The Lord has shattered my shackles and united me with Himself.
Taking pity on me, He has made me the slave of His Home.
Performing hearty service unto the Lord, incessant melodious music and celestial strain plays for me.
O my Lord, within my mind, I have enshrined faith in Thee,
and my haughty intellect has been effaced.
My Lord has taken my side and beauteous has become my magnificence in this world.
Hail! hail! is unto the Lord contemplate thou Him, the Master of the universe.
A sacrifice, sacrifice am I unto my Lord master.
Without Him, I see not any other. The one Lord pervades the entire universe.
True, true, true, I know my Lord to be.
By the Guru's grace, my mind ever remains imbued with Him.
Thine slaves live by remembering, remembering Thee and merge in Thee, O Unique Lord.
The Loved Lord is dear unto His devotees.
My master is the Emancipator of all.
Contemplating the Name, all the wishes are fulfilled, The Lord has saved the honour of salve Nanak.
Maru Solhas 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained,
The body bride is clung to the rambler spouse.
She is involved with him and enjoys peace and pleasure.
Through the coincidence of past actions, they have met together and indulge in revelments.
Whatever the spouse does, to that, the bride forthwith submits.
Embellishing the bride, the Groom keeps her with himself.
Meeting together, day and night they dwell in concert and the husband comforts his wife.
On the bride's demand, the spouse runs in many ways.
Whatever he finds, he comes and shows that to his bride.
Unto one thing, he can reach not and so the bride remains hungry and thirsty.
Joining both her hands, the bride makes supplication.

Transact thou such a business within the home, they may rid me of my hunger and thirst.
All the rituals and religious rites the bride performs in this age,
but without the Lord's nectar, she fins not even an iota of peace.
When, O Nanak, through the Saints association, the Lord becomes merciful, then the bride and groom enjoy peace and pleasure.
The bride is blind and the groom restless and wise.
Of the five elements the creation is created.
The merchandise for which thou has come, that is received only from the Guru.
Says the bride: "reside thou ever with me,
O my blissful, young dear Lord,
without thee, I am of no account, so give me thy word, that you shall never leaving me (go anywhere else)".
Says the groom, "I am the slave of my commander,
who is my great Master, who fears none and depends not any time".
As long as he shall keep, so long I shall bide with thee, when he summons me, then shall I rise up and depart".
Though the spouse utters the True words to his bride,
being restless and inexperienced she understands not anything.
Again and again, l she asks for the company of her spouse and deems the words as a mere joke.
The order arrives and the groom is called back.
He consults not his bride nor asks her opinion.
He gets up and marches off and the discarded bride mingles with dust, See, O Nanak, the falsity of worldly-love and hope.
O my avaricious soul, hearken unto me, O my soul.
Day and night ever serve thou thy True Guru.
Without the Guru, the mammon worshippers putrefy and die. Round the Neck of the Guruless one is the Death's noose.
The egocentric comes and the egocentric goes.
The egocentric suffers strokes again and again.
As many as are the hells, in so many the perverse person suffers pain, while the Guru-ward is affected not even a bit by them.
He alone is the holyman, who is Pleasing to the Reverend Lord.
Who can efface his glory, whom the Lord robes?
He, The enjoyer, who is dressed with the good robe of honour, ever makes merry.
I am a sacrifice unto my Perfect True Guru,
who is the giver of protection and the man of word.
I have met with such Peace-giving Lord, who forsaking me goes not any where.
The Lord is the Treasure of virtues. No worth of His can be appraised.
He is fully filling all the hearts and all the places.
Nanak seek the refuse of Him, who is the Destroyer of the sorrow of the poor. O Lord I am the dust of the feet of Thine slaves.
Maru Solhas 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
My Blissful Lord makes merry.
He is filling all the hearts and adjudges every one according to his deeds.
The True Lord is over the head of all the kings, Without Him, There is not another.
He is joyful and infinitely compassionate.
The Lord's light is manifest all over.
He creates forms and creating enjoys their sight. Himself He worships Himself.
He Himself creates nature and gives attention to it.
He, the True Lord Himself creates the universe.
He Himself makes men play the game day and night and Himself rejoices by listening to and hearing His praise.
True is His throne and true His sovereignty.
True is the treasure of the true Banker.
God Himself is true and all true is what He has established. The true order of the True One prevails everywhere.
True is the justice of the True Lord.
Ever true is Thy adobe, O my Lord.
Ever true is Thy Omnipotence, true thine Gurbani and true is the bliss that Thou give, O Lord.
Thou alone are the great king.
By Thy command, O True Lord, he affairs are fulfilled.
Within and without, Thou know everything, O Lord and Thou Thy self are pleased with Thyself.
Thou are the great Reveller and Thou the great enjoyer.
Thou are detached and thou are united.
All the celestial comforts are in Thy Home and Thine gracious glance sheds Nectar.
Thou alone give Thine gifts.
Thou bless with Thine bounties all the beings of the world.
They remain sated and satiated and Thine brimful treasures exhaust not.
The adepts, strivers and forest dwellers beg alms from Thee.
The men of continence, chaste persons and they who abide in peace beg alms from Thee.
Thou alone are the Giver and all others are Thine mumpers. My Master, Thou bless the whole world with Thine bounties.
The saints meditate on Thee and bear Thee infinite love.
Thou create and destroy in an instant.
Great is the weight of Thy meditation, O my Infinite Lord. Thine saints submit to Thy will.
He alone realise Thee, whom Thou bless with Thine vision.
Through the Guru's instruction, he ever enjoys Thy love.
He alone is clever, handsome and wise, who is pleasing to Thy mind, O Lord.
He, who remembers Thee, becomes care-free.
He, who remembers Thee is the true king.
What sort of fear can he have, who cherishes Thee in his mind and what else need he do to please Thee, O Lord?
My desire is stilled and my mind is cooled.
The Perfect Guru has united me, the separated one with the Lord.
The Lord's meditation has awakened within my mind and brushing aside the sin, I in-drink the Name-Nectar.
I shall die not and shall live for ever and aye.
I have become eternal and am rendered imperishable.
I shall now neither come nor go. The Guru has dispelled my doubt.
Perfect is the word of the perfect Guru.
He who is attached to the Perfect Lord, merges in the Perfect Lord, merges in the Perfect One.
His love increases day by day and where it is weighed, it weighs not less.
When gold is rendered one hundred percent pure,
then its colour appeals to the jeweler's eye.
Assaying it, it is consigned to the treasury by God, the jeweler, and it is not heated again.
Nectar-sweet is Thine Name, O my Master.
Nanak, Thy slave is ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Associating with the saints, I have obtained supreme bliss and seeing the Lord's vision, this soul is pleased.
Maru 5th Guru Solhas
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The Guru is the cherisher of the world and the Guru is the Master of the universe.
The Guru is the compassionate and ever forgiving.
The Guru is my Shashtras, Simritis and the six rituals and the Guru is my holy place.
All the sins are effaced on remembering the Guru,
and on remembering the Guru, one is not entangled in Death's noose.
Contemplating the Guru, the mind become immaculate and the Guru rids one of disgrace,
The Guru's serf falls not into hell.
The serf of the Guru, meditates on the Transcendent Lord.
The slave of the Guru meets the society of the saints and the Guru ever gives the gifts of spiritual life.
All the Guru's door one hears the God's praise.
Meeting with the True Guru, one utters the Lord's praise with honour in the Lord's court.
Sorrows and strifes the True Guru effaces and blesses with honour in the Lord's court.
The Inaccessible and Inapprehensible Lord the Guru has shown me.
Me, the strayed one, the True Guru, has put on the right path.
No hindrance comes in the way of the devotional service of the Guru's slave and the Guru implants in him the Perfect God's gnosis.
The Guru has shown me the Lord in all the places.
The Lord of universe is fully-filling the ocean and the earth.
My mind's attention is fixed on the Lord, before whom the high and the low all are alike.
Meeting with the Guru, all the desire is stilled.
Meeting with the Guru, mammon eyes one not.
The perfect Guru has blessed me with Truth and contentment and I now in-drink and quaff the Name-Nectar.
The Guru's word is contained amongst all.
The Guru, himself hears and Himself utters it.
They who deliberate over it; They are all emancipated and they are all emancipated and they attain an eternal abode.
The True Guru's Glory, only the True Guru knows.
Whatever he does, he does that in his will.
Thine slaves ask for the dust of Thy saints' feet, O Lord. Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Maru Solhas 5th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
My Immaculate, Primal Lord is Formless.
The Detached one is Himself contained amongst all.
he has no colour, caste and mark, By His will, he creates the whole world.
Out of all the eighty-four lakhs of existences,
the Lord has blessed man with glory.
The man who misses this opportunity, He suffers sorrow of coming and going.
What out I say unto him, who himself is created?
By the Guru's grace, the Name's wealth is obtained.
He alone strays, whom the Lord Himself strays and he alone understands whom He instructs.
This body is made the township of weal and woe.
They alone are emancipated who seek the True Guru's protection.
He who remains detached from the three modes; He is blessed with glory through the Guru's grace.
One does various and good many deeds.
Whatever he does, that proves fetters For His feet,
The seed, sown, out of season germinates not and the man loses all his capital and profit.
The most exalted is the celebration of the Lord's praise in this Darkage.
So through the Guru, attentively contemplate thou the Lord's Name.
Thou shall save thyself and save all thy lineage and shall go to the Lord's court with honour.
All the continents, under-worlds, islands and the worlds.
Of Himself the Lord has made them all subject to death.
Ever moveless is the One imperishable Lord. Himself He who meditates on Him becomes eternal as well.
God's slave he is like unto the Lord.
Due to his human body deem him not distinct from the Lord.
As water waves rise in various ways, but water merges in water again.
A beggar asks for alms at Thy door, O Lord.
When the Lord wills, then takes he pity one him.
Bless Thou me with Thy vision, O Lord, wherewith my mind is satiated, It is through Thine praise that my mind is restrained.
The beauteous Lord is controlled not by any wise.
The Lord God does that what is pleasing to his saints.
What the saints wish to be done, that the Lord does, no request of theirs is left ungranted at the Lord's door.
Wherever the mortal is faced with difficulty,
there he should contemplate his God, the world sustainer.
Where the sons, wife and friends are not, there God. Himself rescues the mortal.
The great Lord is Unapproachable and Unfathomable.
How can one meet the care-free Lord?
Snapping the noose, he whom the Lord puts on the right road; He obtains an abide in the saints society.
He, who understands the Lord's will, is said to be His slave.
Both bad and good bears he alike.
When ego is stilled, then knows he the One Lord, such a Guru-ward merges in the Lord.
God's devotees ever abide in peace.
They have a child's nature and remain detached despondent.
They enjoy various merriments in many ways and the Lord caresses them as father does his son.
The Lord is boundless and Imperceptible, His worth can be ascertained not.
Then alone man meets Him, when He makes him meet.
By the Guru's grace, the Lord becomes manifest unto the persons, who from the beginning have such a writ, recorded on their forehead.
My Creator Lord, thou thyself are the Doer of deeds.
Thou has created the entire creation and upheld the earth.
My Lord Master, slave Nanak seeks the refuge of Thy door. If Thou so will, save thou his honour.
Maru Solhas.5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Whatever is seen, that Thou are, O Unique Lord.
All that one hears with his ears is Thine speech.
There does not appear to be any other. Thou give support to all.
Thou Thyself give thought to Thine creation.
All by Thyself, Thou has come into being, O Lord.
Becoming thus self-existent, Thou has created the world and Thyself take care of hearts.
Some Thou has created who hold great courts.
Some are renouncers and some who keep the household.
Some are hungry and some are sated and satiated, but all lean on Thee, O Lord.
True, true, true is the True Lord Himself.
Like warp and woof, He is united with His devotees.
He Himself is Unmanifest and Himself manifest and Himself he spreads Himself.
Ever, ever, ever, to stay is my Lord.
He is lofty, Unapproachable, Unfathomable and Infinite.
The empty, He fills and the fully-filled, he empties These are the wondrous play and doings of my Lord.
Within my mouth, praise I the True Lord.
With mine eyes I see the Boundless and Unfathomable Lord.
Hearing and listening to Thine praise with my ears, my soul and body are in bloom My Master emancipates one and all.
Creating the creation, the Lord sees what he has created.
All the creatures meditate on Him, the Lord.
His Omnipotence, He Himself knows, Through His grace, the Gracious Lord is seen.
Where sits the saints 'congregation; Near there is my Lord.
Seeing the Lord's wondrous deeds and plays, the saints revel and make merry.
O Nanak, there the Lord's slaves meditate on Him and sing His praise, through the unstruck melody of the Guru's Bani.
Coming and going is all a wondrous play of Thine, O Lord.
Creating the creation, Thou see Thy beauteous play.
Of Himself the Creator-Lord creates and nurtures His creation.
I live by hearing and listening to Thy glory.
Ever, ever am I a sacrifice unto Thee.
O my Boundless and Infinite Lord, by clasping both of my hands, meditate I on Thee, day and night.
Without Thee, whom else should I praise?
I remember but one Lord, within my mind.
Realising Thy will Thine slaves are enraptured. This is the service that Thy devotees perform.
By the Guru's instruction, contemplate I the True Lord, in my mind.
By the Guru's instruction I am absorbed in the Lord's love.
By the Guru's instruction, all the bonds are snapped and this doubt and worldly love are wholly burnt.
Wherever the Lord keeps me, that alone is the seat of peace.
Whatever naturally happens, that I accept as good.
I am rid of my enmity and have no enemy, Amongst all, see I now the One Lord.
My fear is removed and my darkness is dispelled
as unique Lord has become manifest unto me.
Silencing my self conceit, I have entered the sanctuary of Him to whom I belong, It is His service, that I perform now.
Rare is any such very fortunate person,
who having been born in this world, contemplates his Lord, the eight watches through.
In that person's company, every one is emancipated and be redeems his family as well.
This gift, receive I from my Lord.
With joined hands, remember I my Lord through out eight watches of the day and night.
I contemplate the Name and through the Name, merge I in the Lord. May Nanak continue uttering the Lord's Name.
Maru 5th Guru.
Seeing the form, be thou not misled O fool.
False is the world's love for lust.
None is allowed to stay in this world, Ever-stable is the One Lord alone.
Enter thou into the refuge of the Perfect Guru.
He shall rid thee of all thy worldly love, sorrow and doubt.
He shall administer thee the cure-all of the spell of the one Name and thou shall take to the Hymning of the True Name in thy mind.
The Lord's Name, for which crave many gods,
whose service all the devotes perform,
and who is the Patron of the patronless and is the Destroyer of the pain of the poor; that Name is obtained through the Perfect Guru.
I can think of no other door.
If man wanders through the three worlds, even then he understands naught.
The True Guru is the banker, who possesses the Name treasure. This gem of the Lord's Name is obtained from him.
He is the One, dust of whose feet sanctifies one.
O friend, that sacred dust, even the angelic persons and gods obtain not.
The True personality of the True Guru, is the embodiment of the Transcendent Lord, meeting with whom, One is ferried across.
O my dear soul, if you wish to have the "true of life",
and desire that "Elysian cow" should adorn thy court,
then serve the Perfect Guru and practise the Peace-giving Name, that thou may be satiated and contented.
Through the Guru's gospel, the five desires are stilled,
By the supreme Lord's fear, thou shall become immaculate.
When the Perfect Guru, like the philosopher's stone, meets with thee, then his touch reveals unto thee thy Lord, the Philosopher's stone.
Millions of heavens equal not the Lord's Name.
The Lord-divine even forsakes the desire of poor emancipation.
The One Lord is obtained through the True Guru. A sacrifice, sacrifice am I unto the vision of my Guru.
No one knows how to serve the Guru.
He, the Guru, is himself the Inapprehensible transcendent Lord.
He alone, whom the Guru yokes to his service and on whose fore head good fortune is recorded; is said to be his Slave.
The Guru's glory, even the Vedas know not.
On the basis of mere hearsay one utters it, but a bit.
The True Guru is the most excellent supreme Lord, contemplating whom the soul is cooled.
Hearing of whose sublimity, the soul lives,
and if He abides within the mind, then one is rendered cool.
If the mortal utters the Guru's Name with his mouth, then obtains he glory and walks not in the Yama's path.
I have entered into the sanctuary of the saints,
and have placed before them my soul, life and wealth.
I know nothing of Thine service and gnosis, My Master, take thou pity on me, a mere worm of Thine.
Blend Thou me, the meritless one, with Thee, O Lord.
Showering Thine benediction yoke me to Thy service.
I wave the fan, grind corn for the saints and washing their feet, am blessed with peace.
Roaming and rambling about at many doors, I have come to Thee, O my Lord.
By Thine grace, I have entered into Thy sanctuary.
Ever, ever keep Thou me in the saint's society and bless me with the gift of this Name of Thine.
My Lord has become merciful,
and I have obtained the vision of my Perfect Guru.
Nanak is in ever peace, poise and bliss and is called the slave of the Lord's slaves.
Maru Solhas 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
O Lord, the earth contemplates Thee and also the sky.
The moon and the sun contemplate Thee, O the Treasure of virtue.
The air, water and fire meditate on Thee and the entire creation meditates on Thee, as well.
All the regions, islands and worlds ponder on Thee.
The under, worlds and the spheres meditate on that True Lord.
Contemplate Thee the source of creation, contemplate Thee the speech and contemplate Thee all the godly men.
Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva dwell upon Thee, O Lord
The thirty-three crores of gods dwell upon Thee.
The super-gods remember Thee all the demons. Innumerable are Thine praises, O Lord;
All the beasts, mountains and the renouncers remember Thee, O Lord.
The forests, mountains and the renouncers remember Thee, O Lord.
All the parasite vines, creepers and boughs remember Thee. Thou. O Lord, are pervading all the souls.
All the subtle and gross beings remember Thee.
The adepts and strivers remember the Lord's Name.
The Invisible and the visible meditate on my Lord, My Lord is Master of the world.
All men, women and the four institutions dwell upon the Lord.
All the castes, souls and races remember Him.
All the men of merit, wisdom and knowledge remember Thee and remember Thee night and day as well, O Lord.
Remember Thee, the duration of 24 seconds and the moments.
Dwell upon Thee death, birth and the thoughts of purification.
The Shastras, which tell of auspicious omens and unions dwell upon Thee, O Lord. The Invisible one can be seen not even for a moment.
The Lord is the Doer and the Prompter of deeds.
He is the knower of all the hearts,
Showing mercy, he whom Thou, O Lord, yoke to Thy service; he wins the invaluable human life.
He, within whose mind His Lord abides,
is of perfect destiny and utters the name of the Guru-God.
He, who realises that Lord within all, wanders and wails not in existences, again.
He, within whose mind, the Guru's word abides,
his sorrow, pain and doubt flee.
He bides in the peace, poise and the bliss of the Name-Nectar and the celestial strain naturally resounds for him.
He alone is wealthy who contemplates on his Lord.
He alone is honourable, who associates with the society of saints.
He within whose mind the Supreme Lord abides, is of perfect destiny and remains not unknown.
He, the Lord, is pervading the water, dry land and the sky.
There is not another, who can be said to be so pervading.
The salv of the Guru's gnosis has rid me of all my doubt and without the One Lord, I now see not another.
The highest of the high is the Lord's court.
The Lord limit and extent can be described not.
The Lord is deed, Profound, Unfathomable and Unweighable. How can one measure Him?
Thou are the Creator Lord and all are created Lord and all are created by Thee.
Without Thee, there is not any other second.
Thou alone, O Lord are in the beginning, the middle and the end and Thou are the Root of the entire word.
The myrmidon of death comes not near him,
who in the saints 'Society sings God's praise.
All the desires of him are fulfilled, who with his ears, hears the Lord's praise.
Thou belong to all and all belong to Thee,
O my Deep and Unfathomable True Lord.
Says Nanak, only those persons are sublime, who are pleasing to Thy mind, O Lord.
Maru 5th Guru.
The Omnipotent Lord is the Giver of all the comforts.
Be Thou merciful unto me, that I may contemplate Thy Name, O Lord.
God is the Giver and all creatures are His mumpers, His saints wish to ask for His vision.
I ask for the dust of the saints' feet, that I may be blessed with the supreme status,
and be rid of the filth of many births.
The chronic diseases are cured with the Lord's Name's medicine. I crave to be imbued with the Immaculate Lord.
With my ears, I hear the Lord's pure praise.
Seeking the one Lord's refuge, I have abandoned the desire for vice.
Bending low I fall at the feet of Thine slaves and feel not shy in doing goods deeds.
My God, my tongue sings Thy praise,
and the sins committed by me are washed off.
O Lord, my soul lives on Thine remembrance and contemplation and is rid of the five vexation demons.
Contemplating Thee. O Lord, One boards the boat of Thine lotus feet.
Meeting with the society of saints, the world ocean is ferried across.
To realise the Lord pervading all alike is my flower-offering and obeisance and so I shall not again go naked in existences.
O the cherisher of the world, make Thou me the slave of Thine slaves.
Thou are the treasure of grace and compassionate to the meek.
Meeting with the Perfect transcendent Lord, thy Perfect Transcendent Lord, thy comrade and Helper, thou shall not ever separate from Him again.
Dedicating my soul, and body, I place them before my God.
Asleep for many births, I have now become awake.
He, to whom I belong, is my Nature, I have killed and thrown off my murderous self conceit.
God, the Inner-knower, is fully-pervading the water and the land.
The Undeceivable Lord is permeating in all hearts.
The Perfect Guru has demolished the wall of my doubt and I now see the one Lord permeating all.
Wherever I see, I see my Lord, the ocean of peace.
There is no deficiency in the treasure of God, the mine of emeralds.
Unseizable and Unfathomable is the Lord, whose extent can be known not, even in the least. He alone realises Him, on whom is His grace.
Peaceful is my breast and cool are my soul and body,
and the fire of my birth and death is quenched.
Casting His ambrosial glance and holding me by my hand, the Lord has pulled me out of the world ocean.
The One Lord alone is contained in all the places.
Without Him, there is not another.
The Lord permeates the beginning, the middle and the end, Through, Him my desire and doubt are stilled.
The Guru is the Supreme Lord and the Guru is the Master of the Universe.
The Guru is the Creator and Guru is the ever, forgiving Lord.
Uttering and contemplating the Guru's Name, I have gathered the fruit and associating with the saints, I am blessed with the lamp of Divine knowledge.
Whatever I see, all that is solely the Lord.
Whatever I hear, that is the speech of my Lord.
Whatsoever man does, that Thou makes him do, O Lord. Thou give shelter and succour the saints, who are Thine offspring.
The beggar asks for alms and meditates on Thee alone O Lord.
O my perfectly superb Lord, Thou are the Purifier of the sinners.
O the Treasure of all comforts and virtues, bless me Thou with the one bounty of Thine meditation. I ask not for even a bit of other gifts.
The Lord is creator of the body vessel.
In the society of saints, good influence is produced on it.
By means of the Divine Gurbani, immaculate repute is obtained and the soul is imbued with the Name madder.
My soul gathers sixteen powers, perfection and the fruit,
when the Lord of infinite powers becomes manifest unto me,
The Lord's Name is Nanak's bliss play and peace and he in-drinks God's immortalising Name-Nectar.
Maru Solhas, 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
Thou are my Lord and Thou has made me Thy slave.
My soul and body are all given by Thee.
Thou alone are the Doer and Prompter of deeds. There is nothing that I can mine.
When Thou sent me, then came I into the world.
Whatever is Thy will, those deed do I.
Without Thee, nothing can be done, Thee I need cherish no anxiety.
There in the yond Thy command is heard.
Here in this world, utter I Thine praise, O Lord.
Thou Thyself write man's account and Thyself free him from the account. How can he involve himself in strife with Thee.
Thou, O Lord, are our Father and we are all Thy children.
As Thou make us play so do we play.
The wilderness and way all are made by Thee, no One can go against Thy will.
Some there are, whom Thou keep seated in their homes.
Some Thou wander in the country and foreign lands.
Some are grass-cutter and some the kings, who can be called false from amongst these?
Who is emancipated and who falls into hell?
Who is the householder and who the devotee of Thine?
Who is wise and who of shallow nature? Who is clever and who is ignorant?
In the Lord's will one is emancipated and in the Lord 'd will he falls into hell.
In the Lord's will he becomes a family man and in the Lord's will His slave.
In His will, one is shallow-natured and in His will, he is wise. Without Thee, O Lord, there is no other side.
Exceedingly great, Thou has made the ocean.
Making them the way-ward fools, some Thou push into hell.
Some, who board the ship of truth of the True Guru, Thou Thy self ferries across.
In His will, the Lord has (enjoined) or (sent) this wondrous death for the mortals.
Creating the creatures, Thou Thyself destroy them.
Creating the one world arena, Thou see it, feel happy and enjoy all the pleasures
Great is the Lord and great is His Name.
He is the great Giver, great is whose abode.
Unapproachable, Unapprehensible, Infinite and Unweighable is He, the Lord His measure one can know not.
No one else knows the Lord's worth.
My immaculate Lord, Thou alone equal to Thy ownself.
Thou Thyself are the Divine, Thyself the contemplation and Thyself an extremely great man of truth.
For myriad of days, Thou remained (were called) recondite.
For myriads of days, Thou were absorbed in thine supreme silence.
For Millions of days, there was pitch darkness and then the Creator Himself became manifest.
Thou thouself, O Lord, are called the embodiment of powerful mammon.
Becoming a hero Thou thyself issue commands like a hero.
Thou thyself diffuse the peace within and Thyself are cool like the cool hail.
He, whom Thou honour and make the Guru-ward,
within him the Name abides and the unstruck music resounds for him.
He alone is in peace, he alone the Lord of all and near him comes not the dearth's courier.
His worth can be (written)or(said) not on paper.
Says Nanak, Infinite is the Lord of the world.
In the beginning, the middle and the end, only he, the Lord is. The ultimate judgement is in His Hand alone.
O man, no one is an equal of Him.
Through no excuse, one can say 'No unto Him.
Nanak's Lord is all by Himself. Standing aloof, He enacts and sees His wonderous plays.
Maru 5th Guru.
My master is Imperishable, Transcendent Lord, Supreme Master, Inner knower,
the Slayer of Madh demon and with a string round His belly.
The joyful God is the Master of organs, the Uplifter of the mount Goverdhan and the Lord of the Fascinating flute.
The Lord is the Enticer of hearts, the Lord of wealth and the killer of Mur demon,
Reverend God, the Lord of universe, is the Destroyer of Devils.
The Life of the world and ever stable Lord abides in all the hearts and is ever with us.
The Lord is the support of the earth, the man-lion and Primal being.
Thou, O Lord, are the Upholder of the earth with Thine for teeth.
Thou, O creator, assumed the form of a pigmy and are the sublime Lord of all.
Thou alone are sire Ramchand, who has no form and outline.
Thou, O flower-gift God, of fascinating sight, has a quoit in Thy hand.
Thou has thousands of forms. Thou alone are the Giver and all others are beggars.
Thou, O Lord, are the lover of Thine devotees and the Patron of the patronless.
The Lord of milk-maids is ever with every one.
O my beneficent and Immaculate Luminous Lord. I can describe not thine Praise even a bit.
My Beauteous Lord is the Giver of salvation and the spouse of wealth.
He, the Lord, is the Saviour of Daropadi, from the clutches of the destroyers of her honour.
The Detached Lord of mammon does the wondrous deeds, sports and makes merry.
Fruitful is His sight and Immortal His form,
which perishes not ever, he is unborn and self-illumined.
O my Imperishable, Eternal and Inapprehensible, Lord, Everything is attached to Thee.
God, the lover of eminence, abides in Heaven,
In His will, the Lord came in the from of the Big Fish and the Tortoise.
The Lord of Beauteous hair, does wondrous deeds and what He wishes to do, that alone comes to pass.
The non-eating, Uninimical and pervading God,
has established the world-play and he is called the four-armed Lord.
He has assumed the black and beauteous form and hearing His flute all are fascinated.
The Lord is decked with the garland of forest flowers and has lotus like eyes.
Beautiful are His ear-rings, crown and pipe.
The Lord is equipped with conch, quoit and bludgeon. He is the great charioteer and the saints comrade.
Yellow and Yellow-robed is the Lord of three worlds.
With my mouth, utter I the name of the Lord of universe and the Word cherisher.
The Loved Illustrious Lord is the Wielder of bow. I can count not all His parts.
He, the Lord is said to be anguish free and Immaculate.
The Conqueror of riches is contained in the water, dry land and in between the two.
Ever-stable and Imperishable is whose abode; he is just near this mortal world and the Nectar world.
The Lord is the Purifier of the sinners and the Destroyer of pain and fear.
He is the Remover of ego and the Eradicator of coming and going.
He is pleased with devotional service and he, the Merciful Master of the meek is softened not through any other merit.
The Formless Lord is Undeceivable and Moveless.
He is the Embodiment of Light and through Him, the whole world flowers.
He alone meets with Him, whom He unites. By himself no one can attain unto Him.
He Himself is the milk-maid and Himself Krishna.
He Himself grazes the cows in the forest.
O Lord, Thou Thyself create and Thyself destroy. Not even an iota of filth attaches to Thee.
Which virtues of Thine can one tongue of mine utter.
The thousand headed serpent knows not Thine limit.
Day and Night utters he the new Name of Thine, but he can narrate not even virtue of Thine, O Lord.
I have grasped the protection and support of the Father of the world.
Dreadful is the terrible myrmidon of death and impassable is the sea of mammon.
Be Thou merciful, O Lord, save me in Thy will and associate me with the society me with the Society of the saints.
All that comes to view is perishable.
O the Master of the universe, I ask for the one gift of the dust of the feet of Thy saints.
Applying it to my forehead, gain I the supreme status. He alone obtain it, whom Thou bless with it, O Lord.
They, to whom the peace-giving Lord shows mercy;
taking the saints' feet they weave them into their mind.
They obtain the Name's entire riches and the celestial strain resound within their mind.
My tongue utters Thine acquired Names.
The True Name is Thy primal and ancient Name.
Says Nanak, Thy saints have entered into Thine sanctuary O Lord, bless thou them with Thy vision, for they love thee in their mind.
Thine state and worth, Thou alone know.
Thou Thyself utter and Thyself describe.
O Lord, make Thou Nanak, the slave of Thine slaves and in Thy will, keep him ever in the society of thine serfs.
Maru 5th Guru.
O the slave of the Boundless Lord God,
renounce thou the thought of all the worldly occupations.
Become thou the dust of the feet of the of the absolved mortal and think thyself a traveler Like this, O saint, thou shalt be approved at the Lord's door.
Make truth thy prayer and faith thy prayer-mat.
Still thou thy desire and overcome thy hope.
Make thou thy body the mosque, thy mind the priest and to be genuinely pure thy Divine word.
Make thou the practice of the Name and the religious conduct thy 'Shariat', the first stage of moral life.
Make the search for God and abandonment of the world thy 'Triquat', the first stage of moral life.
O holyman, make the silencing of the mind thy 'Marft the third stage and meeting with God, thy 'Haqiqat' the fourth one, by which thou shalt not die again.
Instead of reading Quran and other religious books, thou practise
the restraint of the ten sense organs desiring for women or evil ways.
Bind down thou the five (demons) or (men) with faith charity and contentment and thus shalt thou be accepted.
Make kindness thy Mecca and the dust of the saints feet thy fasting.
Deem thou the practice of the Prophet's word as heaven.
God alone is the fairy, light and fragrance and the Lord's meditation is the sublime chamber of worship.
He alone is a Qazi, who practises truth.
He alone is the pilgrim, who has been to Mecca, who purifies his mind.
He, who banishes Satin is a Maulana, and he, whose support is the Lord's praise, is the saint.
At all times and all moments,
remember God, the creator in thy mind.
Make thou the subjugation of thy ten organs thy rosary to remember God and make the good conduct and great self-restraint thy circumcision.
Know in the mind that every-thing is but short-lived.
The family, home and brothers all are entanglements.
The Kings, rulers and nobles are perishable. God's gate alone is the ever-stable place.
Thy first prayer is the Lord's praise, second contentment,
third humility and fourth alms-giving.
Thy fifth prayer is the restraint of the five desires at one place. These are thy exceedingly sublime five times of prayer.
Make the knowledge, that God is everywhere, thy daily-worship.
Make the abandonment of evil deeds the water-pot in thy hand.
The knowledge that there is but One God is thy making a call to prayer and to be a good child of the Lord is the sounding of a horn.
Eat thou the food which is rightly earned.
Wash away thou thy pollution in the river of thy mind.
He, who knows his Prophet is the man of paradise. Azrail, Death's courier goads him not into hell.
Make good deeds thy body and faith thy bride.
Revel thou in the True Lord's love and entertainments.
Make pure that is impure. Deem thou the Lord's presence thy counsel. Let the complete body be the turban on thy head.
A Muslim is he who is Kind-hearted.
He ought to cleanse his inner pollution from his mind.
He should not draw near the worldly pleasures and ought to be pure like the flower, silk, clarified butter and deer-skin.
He on whom is the grace and compassion of the Merciful Master,
he is the manliest man amongst men.
He is the Muslim-preacher, the Chief of shaikhs and the pilgrim of Mecca, and he alone is the Lord's slave on whom is the grace of Man (God).
Power belongs to the Omnipotent Lord and kindness to the kind Master.
Unfathomable are the praise and love of the Merciful Master.
O Nanak, realise thou true will of the True Lord and thou shalt be released from the prison and shalt ferry across.
Maru 5th Guru.
The highest of all is the abode of the Supreme Lord.
He Himself establishes, disestablishes and creates.
Grasping the Lord's protection, peace is obtained and the fear of mammon clings not to the mortal.
He who saved thee in the belly's fire,
and destroyed thee not when thou were a mere germ in the mother's ovary.
And blessing thee with His meditation, sustained thee; He is the Master of all the hearts.
I have sought the refuge of the Lord's lotus feet.
In the saints society I have sung the Lord's praise.
I have shaken off all the pain of birth and death and contemplating the Lord God, I now fear not death.
All-powerful, Indescribable and Inapprehensible is my Luminous Lord.
All the creatures serve but Him alone.
In good many ways the Lord cherishes the egg-born, the foetus born, the sweat-born and the earth-born.
He alone attains to the Lord's wealth,
who within his mind enjoys the Nectar of the Lord's Name.
Taking him by the hand, the Lord pulls him out of the blind well, but rare is such a saint of God.
He the Lord is in the beginning, the middle and the end.
That alone comes to pass, what the Creator Himself does.
Associating with the saints society, doubt and dread are effaced and penury destroys not the mortal.
O Word-Cherisher, hymn I the sublime world.
I ask for the dust of the saints congregation.
Obliterating my desire I have become desireless and have burnt all my sins.
This is the strange way of the saints,
that they ever see the Transcendent Lord with them.
With every breath, they contemplate their Lord Master, Why does one laze in the Lord's meditation?
Wherever I see, there I see my Lord, the Searcher of hearts.
Even for an instant, I forget not my Lord Master.
Thine slaves live by contemplating and remembering Thee, O God. Thou are pervading the woods, the water and the dry-land.
Even the hot wind brushes him not,
who night and day remains awake in the meditation of the Name,
enjoys and revels in God's meditation he has no attachment to mammon;
the disease, sorrow and distress cling to him not,
and he hymns God's praise in the saints society.
O Creator, my Loved Lord, hear Thou my supplication and bless me with Thine Name.
O my Beloved, jewel-like is Thy Name.
With Thy Infinite love Thine slaves are imbued.
They, who are imbued with Thy love, are like Thee. Rarely is such a person found.
My soul craves for the dust of their feet,
who do not forget their Lord at any time.
In their association, obtain I the supreme status and God, my companion, ever remains with me.
He alone is my loved friend and intimate,
who implants the One Lord within me and rids me of my evil-intellect.
Immaculate is the instruction of the man, who purges me of lust, wrath and self-conceit.
Without Thee, O Lord, no one is mine.
The Guru has make me grasp the Lord feet.
I am a sacrifice unto my Perfect True Guru, who has rid me of the doubt of another.
I forget not my Lord during any breath,
and throughout the eight watches I remember my Lord Master.
Nanak, the saints are dyed with Thy love. Thou are the greatly Omnipotent Lord of mine.
Maru 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The Lord's lotus feet, ever enshrine I within my mind.
Every moment, I make obeisance unto my Perfect Guru.
Dedicating my body, soul and everything I place them before the Lord. Beauteous is His Name in this world.
Why thou forget from mind that Lord,
who blessing thee with soul and body has created and embellished thee.
With every breath and morsel, the Creator Lord takes care of man and he reaps the fruit of his actions.
None returns empty-handed from whose door;
cherish thou that God in thy mind throughout the eight watches of the day.
In the saints society, contemplate thou thy Imperishable Lord and thou shalt obtain glory in the God's court.
If thou seek the four cardinal boons, and eighteen miraculous powers,
then contemplate thou the Name's wealth which shall also bless thee with poise, peace and nine treasures.
If, in thy mind, thou desire all the joys, then meeting with the saints, dwell thou on thy Lord.
The Shastras, Simirtis and the Vedas state that,
the mortal should make his invaluable human life fruitful.
Shedding lust, wrath and slander, utter thou the Lord's Name with thy tongue, O Nanak.
He who has neither form, nor outline, nor lineage, nor caste.
He, the Perfect Lord is fully pervading, day and night.
Whosoever remember Him, he is very fortunate and he enters not existences again.
He, who forgets his Creator-Lord;
he wanders about burning and ever remains fiery-tempered.
Him, the ungrateful one, no one can save. He is cast into the terrible hell.
He, who has blessed thee with soul, life, body and wealth,
and who has preserved and nurtured thee in thy mother's belly.
Forsaking His love, thou are imbued with another, This-wise, no end shalt thou reach.
Show Thou mercy unto me, O my Lord.
Thou abide in all the hearts and are near everyone.
Nothing lies in my hands. He alone knows Thee, whom Thou Thyself instruct.
Upon whose forehead my Primal Lord has made this writ,
the mammon clings not to that person.
Slave Nanak, ever seeks Thine protection, O Lord, and the he deems none else equal to Thee.
In His will, the Lord has make all weal and woe.
Hardly any one panders over the ambrosial Name.
His worth can be told not. Every-where, He, the Lord is pervading.
He alone is the Saint, He the Great Giver.
He the Perfect Creator Lord,
thy Succourer since thy infancy, fulfils thy mind's desires.
Death, pain and pleasure are writ by the Lord.
They increase not a bit, not decrease by decreasing.
That alone happens, what pleases the Creator. Man ruins himself by saying that he does some thing.
Those the Lord pulls out of mental blindness,
and separation since myriads of births,
and unites with Himself and saves with His own hands by showering His mercy; who contemplate the World-Lord on meeting with the saints.
Thy worth, O Lord, can be told not.
Wondrous is Thine form and great is Thy greatness.
The slave begs for the alms of Thine devotional service, O Lord. Nanak is a sacrifice a sacrifice unto Thee.
Var of Maru 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained
Slok 1st Guru.
If virtue is sold when t here is no customer, then is sells cheap.
If the customer of virtue is met, then merit fetches a hundred thousand times its price.
Meeting with the virtuous man, virtues are obtained from him and one merges in The True Guru.
The invaluable virtues are obtained not by paying any price not can they be purchased from a s hop.
Nanak, full is their weight. It becomes not deficient, ever.
4th Guru.
Bereft of the Name, men wander about and ever come and go.
Some are bound to their bonds, the bonds of some are loosed (loosened) and some are happy in their Lord's love.
Nanak, believe thou in True Lord and do the true deeds through the true means.
Pauri.
From the Guru, I have obtained the supremely mighty sword of Divine comprehension.
Assailing the fortress of duality and doubt, I have mowed down worldly love, avarice and self-conceit.
Reflecting on the Guru's word, the Lord's Name has secured and abode within my mind.
Through truth, self-discipline and sublime understanding, God has become dear unto me.
Verily and truly, the True Creator Lord is pervading every-where.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Amongst musical measures, Kedara is deemed good, O brother, if with its help one loves the Name,
continues associating with the saints society and enshrines affection for the True Lord;
he washes off his inner pollution and emancipates his lineage as well.
He amasses the capital of virtues and slays and drives out sins.
Nanak, he alone is deemed united, who forsake not his Guru and loves not another.
4th Guru.
Beholding the world-ocean, I die of dread. Fearing Thee, O Lord, I fear not another.
I am contented through the Guru's word and blossom through the Name, O Nanak.
4th Guru.
Though the ocean is agitated, embarking on the ship, proceed I.
The true ship encounters no obstruction, if the Guru gives encouragement.
The Guru is ever seen on the alert and he disembarks me at the door of that Lord.
Nanak, if I am blessed with the Lord's grace, I shall go to His court with honour.
Pauri.
Practising truth, through the Guru's grace, enjoy thou the griefless Kingdom.
Sitting on the True Throne, the Lord administers justice and unites one in the union of the saints congregation.
Contemplating the Lord-God by the True Guru's instruction, the mortal succeeds with Him.
If the Peace-giving Lord abides in man's mind here, then becomes He his succourer in the end.
When the Guru imparts understanding, then wells up in the man's mind, the love for the Lord.
Slok 1st Guru.
Mistaken and gone-amiss, I wander about and no one tells me the way.
I go and ask the wise, If there any one who can rid me of my suffering?
If the True Satguru, abides within my mind, I see my Lord, the Friend, in that very place.
Nanak, hymning the praise of the True Name, the soul is satiated.
3rd Guru.
God Himself is the conduct, Himself the deed and Himself issues commands.
He, of Himself, forgives some and of Himself performs service.
Nanak, obtaining the Divine Light from the Guru, man burns off his suffering and sin through the Name.
Pauri.
O foolish perverse person be thou not misled by beholding riches.
All the wealth which thou see is false and at the time of departure, if shall go not with thee.
The ignorant blind man knows not, that Death's sword is hanging over his head.
They, who in-drink God's elixir, are saved by the Guru's grace,
God Himself is the Doer and Himself the Cause. The Lord Himself saves.
Slok 3rd Guru.
They, who meet not with the Guru and have not slightest fear of God,
suffer great pain in coming and going and their anxiety ceases not ever.
They are struck like the soiled clothes and beaten every hour or two hours like a gong.
Nanak, without the True Name, the entanglement from over their head is removed not.
3rd Guru.
I have searched the three, worlds, my friend, and discovered that pride is bad for the world.
Grieve not, O my soul, speak thou the truth; Nanak nothing but the truth.
Pauri.
The Guru-wards the Lord Himself forgives and they merge in the Lord's Name.
He Himself yokes them to His service and they are stamped with the Guru's word.
Ever beauteous are those faithful ones and they are renowned in the True Court.
Here and there emancipated are they, who realise their Pervading God.
Blessed! blessed are the persons, who serve their Lord. Unto them I am a sacrifice.
Slok 1st Guru.
The ill-mannered soul-bride is engrossed in the body tomb, She is black and of unclean mind.
If she has merits, then alone can she enjoy her spouse, but, O Nanak, the bride abounds in demerits.
1st Guru.
She alone is of good conduct, truly self-disciplined, accomplished in the family,
and ever good, who, O Nanak, day and night remains imbued with the love and affection of her Spouse.
Pauri.
He, who knows himself, is blessed with the treasure of the Name.
Showering his benediction, the Guru merges him in the Guru's word.
Immaculate is the Guru's word, Through it, the mortal in drinks the Lord's elixir.
They, who taste the Lord's Nectar, forsake and renounce other relishes.
Quaffing God's ambrosia, they ever remain satiated and their thirst and hunger are quenched.
Slok 3rd Guru.
In His pleasure, the Spouse enjoys the bride, the bride who bedecks her heart.
Nanak, the bride who stands before her Spouse is an illustrious women.
1st Guru.
Both here and hereafter, the bride belongs to her Husband, the Husband who is Unapproachable and Unfathomable.
Nanak, blessed are the chaste wives, who are pleasing to their Care-free Lord.
Pauri.
That King alone sits on the throne, who is worthy of the throne.
They, who realise the True Lord, They alone are the True Kings.
These Lords of earth are not called kings. Through love of another, they come to grief.
Why should man praise the created one, who makes no delay in departing?
Eternal is the True Lord alone He who understands Him through the Guru, become eternal as well.
Slok 3rd Guru.
One Lord is the Spouse of all. No one is bereft of the Spouse.
Nanak, they alone are the chaste brides, who merge in their True Guru.
3rd Guru.
Good many waves of desire arise in the mind. How can man be delivered at the Lord's court.
If one is absorbed in the Lord's true love, he is blessed with the profound bliss of the Infinite Lord.
Nanak, if man's mind is attached to the True Lord, then is he delivered by the Guru's grace.
Pauri.
Invaluable is the Lord's Name. How can its worth be appraised?
He Himself has created the whole world and Himself is pervading therein.
By the Guru's grace ever praise Him and appraise Him through the truth.
By the Guru's word, the heart-lotus blooms and this wise man quaffs the Lord's Nectar.
Cease his comings and goings and he sleeps in peace and poise.
Slok 1st Guru.
Neither dirty, nor dull, nor ochre nor any other false colour;
Nanak, perfectly red is the true colour of him who is imbued with the True Lord.
3rd Guru.
Shedding fear, the bumble-bee naturally abides midst vegetation, flowers and fruits.
Nanak, there is but one tree, one flower and the one black-bee.
Pauri.
Valiant and the most distinguished are the persons. who grapple with their mind.
They who recognise their ownself, ever remain united with their God.
This is the glory of the theologians, that they remain absorbed in their own mind.
They embrace the True Lord's meditation and mount to the Reverend Master's mansion.
They, who conquer their mind by the Guru's grace; they conquer the whole world.
Slok 3rd Guru.
If I become a Yogi and wander through the world, receiving, alms from door to door;
Then when I am called to account in the Lord's Court, then whom shall I answer and whom not.
I make God's Name my alms and contentment my temple, and ever abide with the True Lord.
The Lord is obtained not (comes not to hand) by sectarial garbs. This wise every one is sized by the Death's myrmidon.
Nanak, false are all other words. Do thou contemplate the True Name.
3rd Guru.
Let on man serve the door(person), by serving which he is called to account.
Find thou out such a True Guru, equal to whom there is not another.
In his refuge, the mortal is realised and none asks him to render an account.
Truth is enshrined in the Guru and truth he enshrines in others. He blesses the mortals with the True Name.
He within whose soul truth is enshrined; his body and mind become true as well.
Nanak, if man submits to the True Lord's command, the Lord blesses him with true glory.
He, to whom the Lord shows mercy, He merges in the True Lord.
Pauri.
They are not called heroes, who die of price and suffer pain.
The blind ones know not themselves and are putrefied in the love of another.
With great wrath they fight, and here and hereafter they writhe in pain.
The Vedas proclaim aloud that the Reverend Lord likes not pride.
They, who die of ego, go bereft of salvation. They die, are born and come again.
Slok 3rd Guru.
A crow becomes not white nor does and iron boat float.
Blessed is he whom puts faith in the wealth of his Beloved. He regenerates others, as well.
The countenance of him, who recognises the Lord's will, becomes bright and he crosses over like iron on timber.
To abandon greed and to abide in the Lord's fear, O Nanak, are the meritorious deeds.
3rd Guru.
The ignorant ones, who go to deserts to overcome their mind, can overcome it not.
Nanak, if this mind is to be subdued the mortal must reflect on the Guru's instruction.
By subduing this mind is subdued not, even though everyone may so desire.
Nanak, if the True Guru is met with, the mind itself overpowers the mind.
Pauri.
The Lord has created both the sides and the mind abides in the midst of mammon.
Through mammon none has ever attained the Lord and one wanders in birth and death.
Serving the Guru peace is attained and one contemplates the Lord with every breath and morsel.
Searching and seeing the Simritis and Shastras, I have found that the sublime person is the slave of Lord.
Without the name, nothing is stable, O Nanak, So, a sacrifice unto the Lord's Name, am I.
Slok 3rd Guru.
If I become a Brahman or an astrologer and utter the four Vedas with my mouth.
If I be worshipped in the nine divisions of the earth for my wisdom and thoughts;
May it not by, that I should forget the True Name and that none should touch my cooling square.
False are the cooking squares. He, the True Lord, alone is True.
3rd Guru.
He, the True Lord, Himself creates, Himself does everything, Himself shows mercy,
and Himself blesses with glory; so says Guru Nanak.
Pauri.
The pain of death alone is dreadful. I can think of no other so dreadful a pain.
The invulnerable death walks in the world and combats with the sinner.
By the Guru's gospel, one merges in God. Contemplating the Lord Master, one comes to realise Him.
He alone is delivered in the God's refuge, who fights with his mind.
He, who remembers and contemplates God in his mind, succeeds in the Lord's Court.
Slok 1st Guru.
The creation is by the will of the Lord-commandant. In His Court truth is accepted.
The Lord shall call thee to account. O man stray thou not on beholding the world.
He, who watches over his mind and keeps it immaculate, He alone is a saint.
Nanak, the account of the mortals love and affection, is with the Creator Lord.
1st Guru.
For him who dwells detached and eats the dry bread, the World-Lord is everywhere.
His mind jewel is pierced with the Lord's jewel and his throat is embellished with the Name-jewel, O Nanak.
Pauri.
Death harasses the egocentrics, who are clung to worldly love and wealth.
In an instant death dashes to the ground and destroys those, who are beguiled by duality.
They are struck with the rod by Death's courier and this opportunity comes not to their hand again.
The Death-courier's stick strikes not those, who remain awake in the Lord's love.
All belong to Thee, O Lord, and all ought to cling to Thee. Thou alone can deliver them all.
Slok 1st Guru.
See thou the Imperishable Lord midst all. Attached to mammon thou shalt suffer great pain.
Thou has to cross the world-ocean, Thou load but dust and carry not with thee the profit and capital of the Lord's Name.
1st Guru.
My capital is Thy True Name, O God. Inexhaustible and Infinite is the wealth.
Nanak, Immaculate is this merchandise of the Name and praiseworthy is this trade and the banker of it.
1st Guru.
Realise and enjoy thou the Eternal love of the great Lord.
Being blessed with the Name, thou shalt dash to the ground, with face downwards, even the death's courier.
Pauri.
Of Himself, the Lord has embellished the body and put in it the nine treasures of the name.
He Himself strays some in doubt and fruitless are their deeds.
By the Guru's grace, some realise their Lord, the All-pervading soul.
Some hearken to the Lord's Name and put faith in it. Sublime, indeed, is this task.
The Lord's love wells up in man's mind, by singing the praise of the God's Name.
Slok 1st Guru.
Forgetting the Lord, other's fear abides in man's mind. The way to meet the One Lord is within the mind.
Through jealousy, man suffer very great pain and his three places of thought, word and deed are accursed.
1st Guru.
The drum of the Vedas, which preach many dissension, is ringing.
O Nanak, contemplate thou the Lord's Name, for without Him, there is not any other.
1st Guru.
Unfathomable is the world-ocean of three qualities; who has ever seen its bottom?
If I meet with the exceedingly carefree True Guru, then alone can I ferry across.
Woe upon woe is filled in the world-ocean.
Nanak, without the True Name, no one's hunger is satisfied.
Pauri.
Beauteous are they, who reach their heart, through the Guru's word.
Meditating on the Lord's Name, they obtain that, what they wish for.
He, to whom the Lord shows mercy, him meets the Guru and he alone stings to Lord's praise.
The Righteous judge is his friend and he walks not to the way of death.
God's Name, he contemplates day and night and in the God's Name, he is absorbed.
Slok 1st Guru.
Hear and utter thou the Name of One Lord, who is contained in heaven, this mortal world, and the under-world.
His command can be erased not. Whatever he has writ, that goes with the mortal.
Who has died, who has killed him, who is it that comes and goes?
Who is it that attains bliss and whose soul merges in the Lord, O Nanak?
1st Guru.
Through pride, the mortal dies, sense of mine-ness destroys him and the breath flows like the river.
The alone man's desire is tired, when his mind is imbued with the Lord's Name, O Nanak.
His eyes are imbued with the eyes of the Lord and God's consciousness rings (merges) in his ears.
His tongue sucks the Name elixir and is dyed by uttering the Name of the Beloved.
His innerself is perfumed with the name, fragrance and his worth can be told not.
Pauri.
In this age the Lord's Name is the only treasure. The Name alone goes with the mortal.
It is inexhaustible and exhausts not ever, whether one eats, expends or ties it to one's skirt.
Death's servant and Death's courier comes not near the Lord's slave.
They alone are the true banker and traders, who have the Lord's wealth in their lap.
When God Himself sends man to the Guru, then alone he attains unto God, by God's grace.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The egocentric knows not the quintessence of the name's trade. He deals in poison, amasses poison and loves poison.
Outwardly they call themselves Pandits, but mentally they are foolish and ignorant.
With God, they attach not their mind and cultivate affection for argument and strife.
They narrate the stories of strifes and maneuver their livelihood by telling lies.
The Lord-God's Name alone is immaculate in this world and filthy are all other forms.
Nanak, the ignorant ones, who meditate not on the Name, putrefy to death.
3rd Guru.
Without serving the Lord, misery overtakes the mortal. Submitting to His will, one is rid of one's pain.
The Lord Himself is the Giver of peace and Himself inflicts punishment.
Nanak, know thou like this, that all that happens is in His will.
Pauri.
Without the God's Name, the world is poor. Without the Name, man is satiated not.
The mortal strays in the doubt of duality, and in ego he suffers sorrow.
Without good luck, he attains naught, however much he may desire.
Through the Guru's word, one is delivered of coming, going (birth and death).
The Lord Himself does everything, so whom else one should complain, when without Him, there is not another.
Slok 3rd Guru.
In this world, only the saints, who meet with the Divine True Guru, earn the Name-wealth.
The True Guru enshrines the True Name Without them. The world of this wealth can be told not.
Obtaining this wealth, man's hunger ceases and peace comes to dwell in his mind.
They alone, who are so pre-destined, are blessed with this wealth.
The way-ward world is poor and bewails for wealth.
Night and day, it ever continues wandering and its hunger departs not, ever.
It never attains peace, nor does comfort come to abide in its mind.
If it ever ridden with anxiety and its doubt departs not, ever.
Nanak, without the True Guru, man's sense is perverted. If he meets with the True Guru, then alone practises he the Word.
Ever, ever abides he in peace and merges in the True Lord in the end.
3rd Guru.
He, who has created the world, He alone takes care of it.
Contemplate ye the One Lord, O brethren. Without Him there is not any other.
Eat ye the food of the Name and virtue, eating which ye shalt ever remain sated.
Clothe yourselves with the Lord's praise and commendation, that is immaculate for ever and aye and never goes dirty.
I have easily earned the true wealth, which decreases not, ever.
God's Name is the body's embellishment, by which it attains peace for ever and aye.
He, to whom He, the Lord, reveals Himself, O Nanak, realises Him by the Guru's grace.
Pauri.
Through the Guru's instruction it is realised that meditation, austerity and self-discipline are within the mortal.
Remembering the Lord's Name, one is rid of ego and ignorance.
Man's within is brimful with the Name-Nectar. It is through tasting, that its relish is knows.
They, who taste it become fear-free and with the Lord's elixir they are satiated.
He, whom the Lord by His grace makes drink it, is not afflicted by death again.
Slok 3rd Guru.
People tie the bundle of demerits and no one deals in virtues.
Rare is the person, O Nanak, who is the buyer of virtues.
He, on whom the Lord casts His merciful glance, is blessed with virtues by the Guru's grace.
3rd Guru.
Merits and demerits are the same, since they are created by the Creator Himself.
Nanak, obeying the Lord's order and reflecting on the Guru's word, happiness is attained to.
Pauri.
The King is sitting on the mind-throne within and He Himself ministers justice.
By the Guru's word is known the Lord's court. Within him, man has the support of the Lord's presence.
The coins are assayed and the genuine ones are cast into the treasury and the counterfeit ones find no place.
The Truest of true pervades all. Ever true is His justice.
Enshrining the Name in the mind, the relish of the Nectar is enjoyed.
Slok 1st Guru.
When self-conceit exists, then Thou are not, O Lord, and where Thou are, there is no self-conceit.
O divine, understand thou this riddle. This sermon of the Ineffable Lord is in the mind.
Without the Guru this quintessence is found not that the Unseen Lord abides in the mind.
When the true Guru is met and the Name abides in the mind, then alone is the Lord known.
When pride departs, doubt and dread depart, too, and pain of birth and death is removed.
By the Guru's wisdom the Unseeable Lord is seen, intellect is rendered sublime and one ferries across.
Nanak, utter thou the spell of "He is me and I am He". The three worlds are included in that Lord.
3rd Guru.
Those who assay their mind-jewel and reflect on the Guru's word;
a few such persons are known to exist in this world in the Darkage.
He, who silences his ego and double-mindedness, his self remains blended with the Lord's self.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the name; They ferry across the difficult, formidable and terrible world-ocean.
Pauri.
The egocentrics search not their within and are beguiled by haughty intellect.
Owing to the burning desire within their mind, they grow weary of wandering in the four directions.
The Simirtis and Shastras they carefully read not and the wayward are thus wasted away.
Without the True Guru, no one attains unto the God's Name and the True God.
He, who reflects on the real Divine knowledge and meditates on the Lord Master is emancipated.
Slok 2nd Guru.
The Lord Himself knows, Himself does and Himself does it right.
So, stand before Him and make a supplication, O Nanak.
1st Guru.
He, who has created the mortal, watches him, too. He Himself knows all about him.
To whom should I say anything, O Nanak, when everything is contained in the very home itself?
Pauri.
Forget thou all other things and befriend the One Lord alone.
Thy soul and body shall be enraptured and they God shall burn all thine sins.
Thine comings and goings shall end and thou shalt not be born and die again.
The True Name shall be thy mainstay and thou shalt burn not in sorrow and worldly love.
Name, amass thou the treasure of the Name, within thy mind.
Slok 5th Guru.
From thy mind thou forsake not wealth and ask for it with every breath of thine.
That Lord thou contemplate not, it is because of thy written destiny.
5th Guru.
The worldly valuables shall go not with thee, why cling thou to them O blind man?
Meditate thou on the Guru's fee that thy bonds of mammon may be snapped.
Pauri.
In His will, the Lord makes man submit to his command and in His will he attains peace.
In His will, the Lord unites man with the True Guru and in His will he remembers the True Name.
No other gift is as great as the submission to the Lord's will. This truth alone, Nanak utters and preaches.
They for whom it is so writ by the Primal Lord, practise His truth.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of Him, who has created the world.
Slok 3rd Guru.
They who have no gnosis within, nor ever a bit of the Lord's fear.
They are destroyed by the world-Lord Himself. Why slay the slain?
3rd Guru.
The very sublime of the comforts is the comfort to read the almanac of the mind.
He alone is called a good-Brahman, who realises the Lord's Meditation.
He praises his Lord, reads of his Lord and reflects over the Guru's instruction.
Approved is the birth of him, who emancipates his entire lineage.
Hereafter, one is questioned not about one's caste, Sublime is the practice of the Name.
False is all other study and false all other acting, as this wise one come in love of poison.
The life of the perverse person is wasted away, for within him is not peace.
Nanak, they who infinitely love their Guru; They are imbued with the Name and are emancipated.
Pauri.
The Lord, of Himself creates the creation and sees it. he Himself is all True.
He who understands not his Lord's command; False is that man.
Howsoever the True Lord will, that wise He yokes the Guru-ward.
Through the Guru's word one merges in One God, who is the Lord of all.
By the Guru's grace, ever praise thou Him, whose beggars all the mortals are.
As the Lord Himself makes man dance, so dances he, O Nanak.
Var of Maru 5th Guru.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
If Thou say so, I would cut off my head and give it to Thee, O my Friend.
Mine eyes long for Thee, When shall I see Thine vision, O Lord?
5th Guru.
My love is with Thee, I have seen all other loves to be false.
A long as I behold not my Beloved, the clothes and food seem dreadful to me.
5th Guru.
O my spouse, I arise early to behold Thy vision.
Collyrium, garland, betel and dainties; All such relishes are but dust without seeing Thee, O Lord.
Pauri.
True Thou are, O True Lord. Thou uphold all that is true.
Creating the world, Thou has make it a place for the pious persons.
In Thy will, the Vedas have come into being, which discriminate between demerits and merits, O God.
Thou has created Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva and has extended the three modes.
Creating the world of nine regions, Thou has embellished it with every dye.
Creating the creatures of various kinds, Thou has infused Thy might within them.
O my True Creator, no one knows Thine limit.
Thou, of Thyself, know all the contrivances and through the Guru, deliver all, O Lord.
Dakhnas, 5th Guru.
If thou, O Lord, are my Friend, then separate thou me not even for an instant.
My soul Thou has fascinated, when shall I behold Thee, O my Love?
5th Guru.
Be thou burnt in fire, O evil persons. Be thou dead, O my separation.
O my Spouse, sleep Thou on my couch, that all my sufferings may end.
5th Guru.
Evil person is involved in duality and is separated through the malady of ego.
The True King is my Friend, meeting with whom make I merry.
Pauri.
Thou are Unapproachable, Compassionate and Infinite Lord. Who can appraise Thy worth?
Thou has created the whole universe and Thou are the Master of all the worlds.
No one knows Thine Omnipotence, O my All pervading Lord.
No one can equal Thee, Thou are the Imperishable Lord, the Emancipator of the world.
Thou has established the four ages and Thou are the Creator of all the earths.
Thou has created coming and going and not even an iota of filth attaches of Thee.
To whomsoever Thou Thyself are compassionate, Him Thou attach to the True Guru's feet.
By any other effort, Thou are found not Thou are the Imperishable Creator of the world.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
If Thou come into my court-yard, the whole land becomes beautiful.
Without the One Spouse of mine, no one cares for me.
5th Guru.
If Thou, O Spouse, sit in my court-yard. Making it Thy own, then all my decorations become graceful.
Then the way-farer who comes to my house shall go not empty handed.
5th Guru.
For my Bridegroom, I have spread out my couch and make all the decorations.
If I wear garland round my neck, even this much is not agreeable to me.
Pauri.
Thou, O Supreme Lord Master, comes not into existences.
In Thy will, Thou create the world and creating it merge it in Thyself.
Thine form can by knows not. How can one meditate on Thee?
Thou Thyself are contained amongst all and manifest Thine Omnipotence.
Thine treasure are brimful with devotion and they decrease not.
These are emeralds, gems and rubies, whose worth can be appraise not.
He, to whom Thou Thyself become merciful; How Thou yoke to the True Guru's service.
He, who hymns God's praise; He suffers got deficiency ever.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
When I see within my mind, then find I my Beloved with me.
By God's grace, I am rid of all my sorrows, and am rendered happy.
5th Guru.
Sitting and standing at the Lord's door, Nanak is serving Him since long and is having His tidings.
My beloved, Thou know my aim. To see the Lord's face, I am standing at His door.
5th Guru.
What should I say unto thee, O block head? Behold thou not others vines (wives). Them alone you are a real husband.
Nanak, the whole world is blooming like an orchard of flowers.
Pauri.
Thou are wise, omniscient and beauteous and are contained amongst all.
Thou Thyself are the servant and the Lord, worshipped by Thyself.
Thou Thyself are wise and the seer, and Thyself are chaste.
My fortunate and Immaculate Lord God is true and continent.
O my Supreme Lord, Thou has spread the entire universe and Thyself play in it.
This coming and going Thou has make and creating the wondrous play Thou behold it.
Whomsoever Thou bless with Guru's word; Him Thou cast not into the belly again.
As Thou Thyself make them walk, so do they walk. Nothing lies in the power of the creatures.
Dakhnas, 5th Guru.
O way-farer, walking on the river-bank, there is deep land-cutting beneath.
Beware, lest thy foot should slip and thou be killed or splashed.
5th Guru.
Deeming what is false and transitory, to be real, thou run on to seize that.
But, O Nanak, it shall melt away like butter in fire and secondly fade away like water-lily.
5th Guru.
O my simpleton and silly soul, why become lazy thou in serving thy Lord?
A long time has elapsed since thou were separated from thy God. When shall this opportunity come to thee again?
Pauri.
Thou has no form, outline and case, and Thou are without a colour.
These human beings deem Thee to be far, but thou are pervading publicly.
Thou Thyself enjoy inside all the hearts and no filth attaches to Thee, O Lord.
Thou are the Infinite and joyful Lord and Thy Light is pervading everywhere.
O my Creator, the Reverdurer of men, amongst all the gods Thou are the most Luminous Lord.
Thou are the Imperishable Transcendent Lord. How can my one tongue utter Thine praise?
He, whom Thou Thyself unite with the True Guru; His all generations are emancipated.
All Thine servants perform Thy service. Nanak too is a slave of Thy door.
Dakhnas, 5th Guru.
Thy thatch is make of straw. O careless man, thou burn fire in it.
They, on whose brow good destiny is recorded, obtain the shelter of their Master.
5th Guru.
One grinds corn, cooks, lubricates and bringing the bread places it before Himself, O Nanak.
But without his True Guru, he sits and watches, until the prayer is read.
5th Guru.
Nanak, the loaves are baked and are placed in a platter.
They, who propitiate their Guru, eat to their fill and satiation.
Pauri.
O Lord, Thou has staged a play in the world and has infused ego in the mortals.
In the one mansion (body) there are five thieves, who ever do misdeeds.
He has created ten females (sense organs) and one male (mind). All the ten are engrossed in relishes.
This bewitching mammon has bewitched them and they ever wander in doubt.
Thou, O Lord, has created both the sides and manifested mind and matter.
Insensitiveness loses before sensitiveness. So it pleases my Lord.
Amidst them, Thou has placed a conscience, which unites the mortal with the saints society.
From within the water, thou has produced the bubble, which shall ultimately merge in the water.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
Long thou for the nest world and turn thou not thy face backward.
Make thou thyself fruitful this very time and thou shalt not be born again.
5th Guru.
My Joyous Friend is called the Friend of all.
Everyone thinks Him his own and He breaks not any one's heart.
5th Guru.
The unmanifest Beloved, I have found. He has become manifest on my very brow.
Nanak, embellished is the place, where Thou, O my Reverend Love, abide.
Pauri.
When Thou, O Lord are on my side, what subservience, then owe I any body.
When I become Thy slave, Thou entrust everything to me.
Inexhaustible is my wealth, however I may continue eating and expending it.
All the eighty-four lacs of species in the world perform my service.
I have become friends with all these enemies, and now no one wishes me ill.
When God has become my Forgiver, no one calls me to account.
Meeting with the Guru-God, I have become happy and obtained peace.
When Thou, O Lord, are pleaded with me, then all mine affairs are adjusted.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
I am ardent to see Thee, O Lord. What kind is Thine face?
In what a miserable plight I did wander. When I saw Thee, then was my mind comforted, O Lord.
5th Guru.
Manifold are the miseries of the woe-stricken. Their pain, Thou alone know, O Master.
Though I may know lacs of medicines, but if I see my Spouse, then alone shall I live.
5th Guru.
I have seen the flowing of flow and the eroding of the stream bank.
They alone remain intact, who meet with the True Guru.
Pauri.
The person, who hungers for Thee, O Lord; Him no sorrow clings.
The man, who by the Guru's grace understand the Lord; He is renowned in four direction.
The man, who seeks his protection; sins tremble on beholding him.
Bathing in the dust of the Guru's feet, the filth of many births is washed off.
Whosoever submits to the Lord's will; Him sorrow harasses not.
O Sire Master, Thou are the Friend of all and deem Thee their own.
As great as is the glory of God, so is the magnificence of His slave.
His slave, the Lord renowns amongst all and it is through His slave, that the Lord is known.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
They, whom I followed; They too now follow in my foot-steps.
They, on whom I rested my hopes, they now rest their hopes on me.
5th Guru.
Wandering and flying, the fly comes near the wet lump of molasses.
Whosoever sits thereon, she is caught, She alone is saved, who has good luck recorded on her forehead.
5th Guru.
I see my God within all. No one is known to be bereft of him.
Good destiny is inscribed on the forehead of the mate, who enjoys my Friend.
Pauri.
If it pleases the Lord God, I, the minstrel, sing His praise at His door.
Ever-stable is my Lord. The others continue coming and going.
I ask for that bounty from the world-Lord by which my hunger may be satiated.
My Venerable Lord, bless Thou me, Thy bard, with Thy vision with which I may be sated.
The Bounteous Lord hears the prayer and calls the bard to His mansion.
Beholding the Lord, the eulogist is rid of suffering and hunger and forgets to ask for aught else.
Repairing to the Lord's Feet, all my desires are fulfilled.
The Lord Master has forgiven me-His meritless and humble minstrel.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
When the soul leaves thee, then thou are but dust, O vacant body. Why realise thou not thy Spouse?
Thou bear love to the evil persons. Say, by what virtues shall thou enjoy thy God's love?
5th Guru.
He, without whom thou can not live even for a moment and can not afford to forsake Him even for a trice.
O my soul, why are thou estranged with Him, who takes care of thee.
5th Guru.
They, who are imbued with the love of the Supreme Lord; Their soul and body become supremely red.
Nanak, without the Name, pollute are all other thoughts.
Pauri.
O my Venerable Lord, what sorrow can I have, When Thou are my Friend.
The cheats who cheat the world, Thou has beaten them, O Lord.
The Guru has ferried me across the dreadful world ocean, and I have won the strife.
By the Guru's instruction; enjoy I all the pleasures in the great world-arena.
Our True Lord has put under my control all my organs.
Whithersoever I yoke them, thither they are yoked and they struggle not with me.
I obtain the fruit that I desire and the Guru has driven me inward.
O brethren, when Guru Nanak is pleased, the Lord is seen abiding near.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
O Lord, when Thou come into my mind, then I obtain all the comforts.
Obtaining within his mind Thy Name, O Spouse, Nanak has been transported.
5th Guru.
Raiments, dainties and evil pleasures; all these are but ashes.
I seek the dust of the feet of those, who are imbued with the Lord's vision.
5th Guru.
Why look thou towards the other side? O my mind, have thou the prop of God alone.
Become thou the dust of the saints feet, whereby thou shall find God, the Giver of peace.
Pauri.
Without destiny, the Sire Master is attained not and without the True Guru the mind is yoked not with Him.
In this Darkage, righteousness alone remains stable and this, man of sin, does never last.
Whatever man does with this hand, with the other hand he obtains the fruit thereof. Not even an instance or moment's delay is caused.
All the four ages, I have scrutinized. Without the society saints, ego flees not.
Self-conceit is stilled not ever without associating with the saints.
As long as man's mind is torn away from the Lord, so long he obtains not place of rest.
The man, who by the Guru's grace, serves the Lord in his heart-home is the support of the Imperishable Lord.
By God's grace, one attains peace and is yoked to the Great True Guru's feet.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
That King, over the head of the Kings, I have searched in all the places.
That Master is within my mind. His name utter and repeat I with my mouth.
5th Guru.
O my mother, the Master has Himself blessed me with the Name-jewel.
Uttering with my mouth, the True name, my soul is cooled down.
5th Guru.
I become a couch for my Spouse and mine eyes its sheet.
If thou, O Love, look at me but once, then obtain I the bliss beyond all price.
Pauri.
My mind longs to meet my God. How can I behold His vision?
I deem to obtain lacs of rupees, If Thou, O Lord talk to me even for an instant.
I have searched the four direction and have found none so great as Thee, O Lord.
Show me the path, O saints. How can I meet my Lord?
I dedicate my mind and renounce my ego. This is the path, along which walk I.
Meeting with the society of saints, I ever serve my Lord.
The Guru has ushered me into the Lord's presence and mine hopes are all realised.
I can think of none else so great as Thee, O my Friend, the Lord of the World.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
I become the throne for my Beloved sovereign.
If Thou put Thy foot on me, O Lord, then flower I like the lotus.
5th Guru.
To satisfy the hunger of my Beloved, becoming cooked vegetable, lie I before Him.
Deem Thou me the sweetness of sugarcane. Being crushed again and again for Thee to drink, I shall tire not.
5th Guru.
Deeming it as an optical illusion, sever thou love with the cheats.
Their pleasure lasts but for two moments. This pedestrian wanders through many homes.
Pauri.
The Unseeable and Incalculable Lord is obtain not by devices of wisdom.
Roaming and rambling in six Shashtras, and wearing religious garbs, God is met not.
They, who keep fast apropos the moon, They are of no account.
They, who read the Vedas in full; see not the sublime quintessence.
Taking bath, they who draw sacrificial marks, on their forehead; Within them is the blackness of sins.
He, who wears religious garb, finds not the Lord without true instructions.
The strayed one, one whose forehead good destiny is preordained; He takes to the right path.
He alone embellishes him human life, who sees the Guru with his eyes.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
Within thy mind, establish thou that partisan, who is not perishable.
Abandon thou thine false affairs and meditate on the True Master.
5th Guru.
Like the moon amidst all the waters of the pitchers, the Lord's Light is pervading all.
Of Himself the Lord become manifest unto him, on whose forehead it is so writ, O Nanak.
5th Guru.
Uttering the Name and singing God's praise the eight watches through, beauteous becomes one's face.
O Nanak, this wise he is accepted in the Lord's court and even the placeless one finds a place.
Pauri.
Through outer religious garb, Lord, the Searcher of hearts is obtained not.
Without the One Sire Master all wander about worthlessly.
Man's mind is imbued with his family and he ever walks about arrogantly.
The proud persons wander about in the world. Why should they pride on their riches?
Wealth goes not with man, when he departs. Without delay it instantly vanishes.
In the Reverend Lord's will, the mortals wander about in the world.
When the destiny awakens, one obtains the Guru and through him meets with the Lord Master.
The man, who is the Lord's servant, His affairs the Lord adjusts.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
Everyone prattles with his mouth, but rare is the one, who realises death.
Nanak is the dust of the feet of those, who have faith in the One Lord.
5th Guru.
Know thou that the Lord abides within all, but rare is the one who is His assayer.
There is no veil of (spiritual) darkness in the body of him, whom the Guru meets, O Nanak.
5th Guru.
I drink the wash of the feet of those, who turn out their evil intellect.
Within my body is infinite love to see my True Master.
Pauri.
Man forsake the Name of the Fear-free Lord and is attached to mammon.
He comes, goes and wanders and dances in many existences.
He pledges the world and backs out. All that he says is false.
The false one is hollow from within and he is engrossed in all falsehood.
He bears enmity with the Uninimical one and is involved in false avarice.
Seeing his deeds, the primal Being, the True King destroys him.
The myrmidons of death spy him and in pain he putrefies.
In the True Court, O Nanak, evenhanded justice is ministered.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
Utter thou the Lord's Name in the early morn and meditate on the Guru's feet.
Singing the praise of the True Lord, the filth of birth and death is washed off.
5th Guru.
Dark, blind and empty is the body without the Lord's Name.
Nanak, fruitful is the birth of him, within whose mind the True Master abides.
5th Guru.
With my eyes I have seen the Lord's Light and my great thirst for Him is quenched not.
Nanak, some other (different) are the eyes, with which my Beloved Spouse is seen.
Pauri.
The person, who by the Guru's grace, serves his Lord; He obtains all the comforts.
He Himself is saved with his family and he emancipates the whole world.
He amasses the wealth of God's Name and all his thirst is quenched.
He renounces the worldly greed and his mind is attuned to the Lord.
Ever, ever there is bliss in his home and God is his comrade and succourer.
he deems enemy and friend alike and wished well of all.
He alone become perfect in this world, who is blessed with Guru's wisdom and God's meditation.
He obtains what is pre-ordained for him and the Lord is pleased with him.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
The True person is said to be beauteous, and false is the repute of the false one.
Nanak, rare are known to be such persons, who have truth in their lap.
5th Guru.
Incomparable beauty is of the face of my Friend. I would see Him eight watches through.
In sleep I saw that Spouse of mine. Unto that dream, I am a sacrifice.
5th Guru.
Realise thou, thy True Friend. In vain is the mere utterance of the words of mouth.
See thou Him within thy mind. That Love is not far from thee.
Pauri.
The earth, the sky, the under-world, the moon and the sun shall pass away.
The Kings, bankers, rulers and chiefs shall depart and their abodes shall be demolished.
The poor, the rich, the humble and the inebriated. All these persons shall go away.
The Muslim judge, the preacher and the penitent shall all arise and depart.
The spiritual leaders, prophets and apostles, none of these shall remain stable.
The fasting, the call to prayer, the prayer and the Muslim, Christian and Jews religious books; they all shall vanish without knowing the Lord.
All the eighty four lakhs of existences of the earth, shall continue coming and going.
Immovable is the One True Lord. The Lord's slave too is eternal.
Dakhnas 5th Guru.
I have sought and searched all. Without the One Lord, there is not another.
Come and show me Thy face, O my Friend, that my body and soul be cooled down.
5th Guru.
The lover is without a hop, but within my mind there is a great hope.
Amidst desires, Thou alone, O Lord, remains without desire; a sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, am I unto Thee.
5th Guru.
Even if I hear of separation from Thee, grieve I, O my Lord. But is I see Thee not, I die.
Without his Beloved, the separated lover, can take not courage.
Pauri.
The banks of rivers, pilgrim stations, deities, temples, Kedarnath, Mathura, Benaras;
The thirty-three crores of gods, along with Indra shall pass away.
The Simritis, the Shashtras, the four Vedas and the six systems shall vanish away.
The books, literate, songs, poems and poets too shall depart.
The celibates, the man of charity and the solitarians are all under the power of death.
The silent sages, the yogis and the nudes alone with the Death's couriers shall pass away.
Whatever is seen, that shall perish. All shall disintegrate and disappear.
Ever-stable is the Supreme Lord Master. His slave too becomes stable.
Slok Dakhde, 5th Guru.
Hundreds of nudenesses make not man naked, lakhs of hungers render him not hungry,
and millions of pains pain not him, O Nanak, on whom the Bridegroom looks with His well-wishing eyes.
5th Guru.
Even if the mortal enjoys all the joys and is the Master of the entire earth;
O Nanak, all that is a disease. Without the Lord's Name, he is but dead,
5th Guru.
Long thou for the one Lord and make Him alone thy Friend.
He alone fulfills thine hopes, O man, visiting other places, thou shall feel ashamed.
Pauri.
The Inaccessible and Incomprehensible God Lord alone is eternal.
Ever-stable is the name-treasure, meditating on which the Lord is attained.
Immovable is the praise and commendation of the World-Lord, which the pious persons sing.
Everlasting are truth, faith and the arduous service, wherefore contemplate I on my Lord day and night.
Compassion, righteousness and Lord's service are eternal. He alone obtains them, in whose destiny it is so writ.
Permanent is the writ, inscribed on the forehead. By erasing, that can be erased not.
Ever-true is the association of the pious persons and ever true is the word of the Guru saints.
They, who are so pre-destined, Ever, ever, meditate they on their Lord.
Slok Dakhnas 5th Guru.
He who himself is drowned; whom else can he ferry across?
Nanak, he who is imbued with his Groom's love, he himself is saved and saves others as well.
5th Guru.
Wherever some one utters and hears the Name of my Beloved.
Thither repair I, seeing my Love, O Nanak blossom forth I.
5th Guru.
Attached in love with thy sons and wife, why call thou them thy own?
Nanak, bereft of the Lord's Name, the human body is without foundation.
Pauri.
With my eyes I see the Guru's vision and place I my brow one the Guru's feet.
With my feet I walk on the Guru's path and with my hands wave I the fan over him.
Within my mind I reflect over the Eternal form, and day and night meditate I on Him.
Putting faith in the Omnipotent Guru, I have renounced all my mine-ness.
The Guru has blessed me with the Name treasure and I am rid of all the sufferings.
Within my lap is the Name of the Ineffable Lord. Eat and enjoy is, O brothers.
Apply thou thyself to the practice of the Name, charity and thy inner-washing and utter ever the Guru's gospel.
I am blessed with bliss, have obtained the Lord and am rid of the fear of the Death's courier.
Slok Dakhnas 5th Guru.
My eyes are fixed on my Beloved and seeing Him are satiated not.
He, the Master, is within all. I see not any other.
5th Guru.
The sayings of the saints, are the paths of peace.
Nanak, they alone obtain them, on whose forehead good destiny is writ.
5th Guru.
Within all the mountains, the oceans, deserts, lands, forests, fruits,
caves, the under-worlds, the skies and all the hearts is fully contained the Lord.
Nanak sees them all strung in the one thread.
Pauri.
The Reverend Lord is my mother, Reverend Lord my father and the Reverend Lord my Cherisher.
Reverend God takes care of me and I am the child of God.
Slowly and steadily, He feeds me and makes not sloth.
He reminds me not of my demerits and hugs me to His bosom.
He blesses me with, what I ask for with my mouth. God is my Peace-giving father.
The Lord has blessed me with the capital of Divine knowledge and the wealth of His Name and make me worthy of this merchandise.
He has make me a partner with the Guru and I have obtained all the comfort.
The Lord, My Father, who is potent to do all the things, separates not from me ever.
Slok Dakhnas 5th Guru.
Nanak, break thou with the false and seek for the saints, who are the true friends.
They, the false, shall leave thee while alive and they, the saints, shall forsake thee not even when dead.
5th Guru.
Nanak, the lightning flashes and the very dark gathering of clouds thunders.
Very heavy is the down pour of the clouds, O Nanak, and the brides look embellished with their Beloved.
5th Guru.
If water-ponds and lands are filled with water and the cold wind blows;
If her couch be studded with gold, rubies and jewels,
and if she is blessed with auspicious raiments and dainties, even then, O Nanak, without her love, the bride continues to burn.
Pauri.
The mortal does the deed, which the Creator Lord makes him do.
Even it thou run is hundreds of directions, O mortal, thou shall obtain, what thou are preordained to have.
Without destiny thou shall obtain nothing, even if thou roam the entire world.
Meeting with the Guru the Lord's fear wells up and one is rid of other's fears and deeds.
Through the Lord's fear wells up detachedness and one sets out in the search of God.
Searching and searching, gnosis wells up in man and then he comes and goes not again.
Seeking the saints refuge and contemplating and practising the Name within my mind, I have attained to my Lord.
He, whom God embarks on the ship of Guru Nanak Dev; He ferries across the dreadful world-ocean.
Slok 5th Guru.
Accept thou death first, abandon the hope of life,
and be the dust of the feet of all, then alone come thou to me.
5th Guru.
See, that he alone lives who dies to himself and he who is alive, deem thou him as dead.
They, who bear love to the One Lord; are alone the supreme persons.
5th Guru.
Pain comes not near him, within whose mind the Transcendent Lord abides.
He is affected not by hunger and thirst and Death's minister nears him not.
Pauri.
O Lord, the moveless True King, Thine worth can be told not.
The adepts, the strivers, the divines and the reflectors, who amongst these can weight Thee?
Thou are Omnipotent to break, make, to create and destroy all.
Thou are potent to do all deeds and speak in all the hearts.
Thou reach sustenance to all, why should the mortal waver?
Deep, Profound and Unfathomable are Thou and priceless is Thy virtuous wisdom.
The mortal does the very deed, which is pre-ordained by the Lord.
Without, Thee, there is naught, O my Lord. Nanak utters Thine praise.
Rag Maru. Hymns of Sire Kabir.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O Pandit with what bad intellect are thou attached?
Thou shall be drowned with all thy family, if thou contemplates not on thy Lord's Name, O luckless man. Pause.
What is good of reading the Vedas and the Puranas? It is like loading a donkey with Sandal wood.
Thou realise not the loftiness of the Lord's Name. How shall thou cross over?
Thou kill life and deem that as religious act. Tell me then, O my brother, what makes an irreligious act?
Thou call thyself an excellent sage. Then whom call thou a butcher?
Thou are blinded in the mind and understand not thyself. How can thou make others understand, O brother.
For the sake of money, thou select thy knowledge, Vain is thy life, O brother.
Narad and Viyas say such words. Thou may go and ask Sukhdev as well.
Says Kabir, thou shall be delivered only by uttering the Lord's Name, otherwise thou shall be drowned, O brother.
If thou not remove evil from thy heart, how shall thou find God by abiding in the forest?
They alone are perfect in the world, who look upon the home and the forest alike.
Thou shall be blessed with real bliss,
if thou in thy mind, lovingly remember thy Lord Master. Pause.
Of what avail is it to wear matted hair, to besmear the body with ashes and to dwell in the cave?
Conquering his mind, man conquers the world, whereby he is detached from the sins.
Everyone applies collyrium to one's eyes, but there is a little difference between the yearning of one and the other.
The eyes, to which the collyrium of Divine knowledge is applied are approved.
Says Kabir, now I know my Lord. The Guru has instructed me in Divine knowledge.
Within me I have met with my God and am emancipated. My mind now wanders not anywhere.
When thou has acquired spiritual wealth and supernatural powers, then what business has thou with anyone else?
What should I say regarding the reality of thy talk? I am much ashamed even to speak to thee.
He who has attained the Lord, the Lord;
he wanders not from door to door. Pause.
The false world greatly wanders in search of wealth in the hope of using it for two days.
The man, who in-drinks the Lord's water; thirsts not, again.
Whosoever understands the Lord by the Guru's grace, he becomes desireless amidst desires.
When man's mind becomes detached, he sees the True Lord everywhere.
I have tasted the elixir of the Lord's Name. The Lord's Name ferries across everyone.
Says Kabir, I have become gold, my doubt if dispelled and I have crossed the world-ocean.
Like water in the water of the sea and the wave in the stream, I shall merge in the Lord.
Meeting with the supreme soul, my soul shall become impartial like the air.
Why shall I come into this world again?
Coming and going is in His will. Realising the Lord's will I shall merge in Him. Pause.
When the make of the five elements perishes, then I shall merge in God and like this my wandering shall cease.
Forsaking sects I look on all as equal and meditate on the Name alone.
Howsoever I am attached to, that-wise attached am I and similar are the deeds that I do.
When the Reverend Lord bestows His mercy, then merge I in the Guru's word.
If thou die while living and so thus return to new life again, then thou shall be born no more.
Says Kabir, whosoever is absorbed in the Name; He remains fixed in the Lord's love.
If thou keep me away from Thee, O Lord, then tell me Thou what is salvation?
Thou, O One Lord, has many forms and are contained within all. How can Thou delude me now?
O Lord, whither shall Thou take me for salvation?
Tell me, where and what sort of emancipation shall Thou give me? By Thy grace, I have already obtained it. Pause.
As long as man knows not the quintessence, so long he talks of the saviour and the saved.
Says Kabir, I have now become immaculate within my mind and my soul has become happy.
He who has make fortress and rampart of gold, abandoning them that Rawan had to go.
O man, why acts thou as it pleases thy mind?
When Death's courier comes and catches thee by the hair; then God's Name alone shall save thee there. Pause.
Death and birth are the Lord's creation. This world is but an entanglement.
Says Kabir, they, in the end, are emancipate within whose mind is the elixir of the Lord's Name.
The body is a village and the soul is the farm-owner. The five husband-men dwell therein.
The eyes, nose, ears, tongue and touch organs obey not my order.
O Father, I shall abide not in this village now.
The accountants called Chitar and Gupat ask for a account of every moment of mine. Pause.
When the Righteous judge shall call for my account, there shall be a heavy balance against me.
The five farmers shall then run away and the bailiff shall arrest the soul.
Says Kabir, hear O Saints, settle your accounts in this very life-farm.
Forgive Thou Thy slave this time, that he may not have to return again to this terrible ocean.
Ram Maru. Hymns of Sire Kabir.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O renouncer, none has seen the Fear-free Lord.
Can the Fearless Being be obtained without fearing Him, O brother?
If the mortal sees the spouse near as hand, then alone feels he His fear, O renounce.
If man realises the Lord's will, then alone becomes he fear-free, O brother.
Practise thou not hypocrisy with thy God, O solitarian!
All the men are imbued with hypocrisy, O brother.
Covetousness leaves not the pursuit of man, O Forsaker.
The mortal's body is burning in the fire of worldly love, O brother.
The fire of care has burnt the body, O Forsaker.
Man escapes from it, if he deadens his mind, O brother.
Without the True Guru, there can be no detachment, O renouncer,
even though everyone may desire it.
O Forsaker, if the Lord's grace be on the mortal, he meets with the True Guru,
and easily attains unto that Lord.
O Forsaker! Kabir makes a supplication,
that God may ferry him across the dreadful world-ocean.
O King, who would visit thee?
I have seen such affection on Vidur's part, that he, the poor man, it pleasing to me. Pause.
Beholding thine elephants thou are gone astray in doubt and realise not thy Venerable illustrious Lord.
I deem Vidur's water as Nectar in comparison with thy milk.
Like the rice-milk, I have found the vegetable of leaves and my night passed in singing the Lord's praise.
Kabir, Lord is joyous and playful and minds not one's caste.
Slok Kabir.
The battle-drum beats in the mind's sky, aim is taken and the wound is inflicted.
They, who are the warriors, enter the battle-field, Now is the time to combat.
He alone is known to be a warrior, who fights for the sake of his religion.
He dies cut piece by piece, but deserts not the battle-field, ever.
Hymns by Kabir. Rag Maru. Hymns of Sire Namdev.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Seeking the refuge of the Lord, my Bridegroom, I have obtained the four kinds of emancipation and the four supernatural powers.
I am emancipated, I am renowned through the four ages and the umbrella of praise and commendation waves over my head.
Who, who is it, that has not been saved by contemplating the Sovereign Lord?
Whosoever listens to the Guru's instruction and associates with the saints society; He is called the saint, the saint of the Lord. Pause.
He is embellished with couch, quoit, rosary and sacrificial mark. Beholding his effulgence, Death's courier is scared.
He becomes fearless, the Lord's power thunders within him and he is rid of the pain of birth and death.
The Lord blessed Ambrik with fearless dignity and aggrandized the sovereignty of Bhabhikhan.
The Lord gave Sudama nine treasure and make Dhru Immovable, wherefrom he has moved not till now.
Assuming the form and body of Man-lion, the Lord killed Harnakhash, for the sake of His saint.
Says Namdev, the Lord with beautiful hair, is the power of His devotees and till to-day is standing at Balraja's door.
Maru Sire Kabir.
Thou has forgotten thy religion, O madman! O thou has forgotten thy religion.
Thou fill thy belly, sleep like a beast and lose thy human life. Pause.
Thou mingle not with the society of saints ever and are engrossed in false pursuits.
thou wander like a dog, a swine and a crow. Thou shall soon arise and depart.
Thou deem thyself ad great and others but small.
They who are evil in thought, word and deed; Them I have seen going to hell.
The lustful, the wrathful, the clever, the deceitful and the idlers.
They waste their life in slandering others and remember not their Lord ever.
Says Kabir, the fools, the block-heads and the brutes meditate not on their Lord.
They realise not the Lord's Name. How shall they be ferried across?
Rag Maru Hymns of Sire Jaidev
There is bur One God By the grace of the True Guru, He is obtained.
The breath is drawn in by the left nostril. If is retained within Sukhmana and is breathed out by the right nostril, uttering sixteen times the Lord's Name.
Breaking my power, I have become powerless, my unstable mind I have make stable and my unfashioned soul, I have fashioned. Then alone have I quaffed Nectar.
Within my mind I contemplate the primal Lord, the source of virtue.
My vision, that thou and I are distinct, I now, have removed. Pause.
I worship Him, who is worthy of worship, trust and like water in water, I merged in the Lord.
Says Jaidev, I have medicated on the Triumphant, Luminous Lord and becoming absorbed in His love, have obtained the Detached Lord.
Kabir Maru.
O man, meditate thou on thy Lord, else thou shall regret in the end.
Thou, O sinful mortal, practice avarice, but thou shall arise and depart to-day or tomorrow. Pause.
Clinging to avarice and straying in the doubt of mammon, thou has wasted away thy life.
Take thou not pride on thy riches and youth. Thou shall dissolve like paper.
When Death's myrmidon comes and seizes thee by the hair and knocks thee down; that day thou shall be powerless.
Thou do not remember or contemplate on God and practise not compassion, so thou shall suffer strokes on thy face.
When the Righteous Judge asks for thy account, what face shall thou show him?
Says Kabir, hear, ye saints, ye shall be saved in the society of the saints.
Ram Maru. Hymns of Sire Ravidas
There is but One God By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my Love (God), who but Thee can do such a thing?
O my Lord, the Patroniser of the poor and the Lord of the world, Thou has put over my head the umbrella of Thine grace. Pause.
He whose touch defiles the world; towards him Thou alone relent.
The lowly Thou exalt, O my Lord and Thou fear no one.
Namdev, Kabir, Trilochan, Sadhna and Sain did cross the world ocean.
Says Ravidas, hearken, O saints, through the Reverend Lord, everything is done.
Maru.
The Lord is an ocean of peace, in whose power are the miraculous, the wish-fulfilling gem and the elysian cow.
The four cardinal boons, the eight supreme supernatural powers and nine treasures are on the palm of His hand.
Why thou not recite God, God, God with thy tongue?
Abandon thou all other devices (structures) of words. Pause.
The various epics, the Puranas the Vedas of Brahma are all composed out of the thirty-four letters.
After due deliberation Vyas has said the supreme truth, that nothing equals the Lord's Name.
Very fortunate are they, who embrace profound contemplation and affection for the Lord and are rid of troubles.
Says Ravidas, the fear of birth and death floes from the mind of the Lord's slave, who remains detached from the world.
There is but one God. by the true Guru grace he is obtained.
Tukhari Chhant 1st Guru Twelve months
Accept that as a result of the deeds done in the past,
each individual enjoys peace and suffers sorrow. Whatever Lord gives, that is good.
O God, creation is Thine. Of what account am I? My Lord, without Thee, I cannot live even for a moment.
Without my Beloved, I am miser able. I have no friend. It is by the Guru's grace, that I drink Nectar.
The Formless Lord is contained in His creation. The act of obeying the Lord is the best of all the acts.
O Nanak, Thy bride is beholding Thy way. Hear Thou, O Omni-present spirit.
The sparrow-hawk cries 'Beloved' and the cuckoo sings the lays
The bride enjoys all the pleasures and merges in the Being of her love
When she becomes pleasing to her Lord God, then merges she in His Being. She is the happy bride.
Establishing the nine houses and a royal mansion above them, God, the Enemy of ego, abides in that mansion of His.
All are Thine, Thou are my Beloved. Night and day make I merry in Thine love.
Nanak, the sparrow-hawk of the mind cries 'Spouse, my Spouse and the cuckoo of the tongue is embellished with the Name.
Hear Thou, O God, my Beloved, drenched am I in Thine love.
With my soul and body repeat and utter I Thy Name.
Thee, I forget not even for a moment How can I forget Thee even for an instant? I live by singing Thy praise, O Lord. A Sacrifice unto Thee, am I.
No one belongs to me. To whom belong I? Without my Lord, I can live not.
I have grasped the refuge of God's feet and abode there and my body has become immaculate.
Nanak, I have obtained deep vision and peace and with the Guru's word my soul is consoled.
It rains a torrent of elixir Delightful are its drops.
When Guru, the friend m meets in the natural way, then love with the Lord is established.
The Lord God comes into the body temple when it pleases Him and the bride rising up utters His praise.
In every home, the Spouse enjoys the chaste brides. Why has the spouse forgotten me?
The lowering clouds have overspread the sky. It rains pleasantly and the Lord's love is pleasing to my soul and body.
Nanak, when the ambrosial Gurbani rains, the Lord graciously comes into my home.
The month of Chet, stunning is the spring and beautiful the bumble-bee.
The forests are flowering in front of my door. May my Love return home.
How can the bride obtain peace, when her spouse comes not home? With the distress of separation her body is wasting away.
The beauteous cuckoo sings on the mango-tree How can I bear the pain of my mind?
The black-bee is flitting on the blossoming bough. How can I survive? I am dying, O mother.
Nanak, in Chet peace is easily obtained, if the wife obtains God as her Spouse in her home.
Pleasant is Baisakh, when the tree-bough adorns itself anew.
The bride is anxious to see God at her door, "Come my Love, come. Take thou pity on me".
Come home, O my Beloved! Ferry me across the difficult world-ocean. Without Thee I am not worth even a shell.
Who can appraise my worth, if I please Thee? I see Thee and show Thee to others. O my love.
O Lord, I know Thee not afar, I believe Thee to be within me and realise I Thine presence.
Nanak, whosoever obtains the Lord in Baisakh, his soul is satiated with Name's meditation.
Sublime is the month of Jeth. Why should I forget my Beloved?
The earth burns like a furnace. The bride prays to her Lord.
The bride makes supplication and utter His praise. Singing the Lord's praise, I become pleasing to Him.
The Detached Lord abides in the true mansion. If He permits me to go to Him, then will I go to Him.
Unhonoured and powerless is the bride. How can she obtain peace without her Lord?
In Jeth, O Nanak, she who knows her Lord, becomes like Him and grasping virtue through His grace, she meets with Him.
Good is the month of Asar, when the sun blazes in the sky.
The earth suffers sorrow and is parched and heated like fire.
The heat dries up moisture and men die in anxiety. Even then the sun wearies not in his task.
The sun's chariot moves on, the wife looks for the shade and the grass-hopper chirp in the forest.
She, who departs, tying the bundle of sins, suppers hereafter and she, who remembers the True Lord, obtains peace.
Nanak, my death and life are with the Lord, to whom I have surrendered this soul of mine.
In swan, be thou happy, O my soul. The season bas come when the clouds rain.
I love my Spouse with my soul and body, but my Darling has gone abroad.
My Beloved comes not home I am dying with the sorrow of separation. The flash of lightening terrifies me.
Lonely is my couch and I am greatly grieved. I am dying of pain, O my mother.
Say, without God, how can sleep and appetite come to me? The raiment affords my body no comfort.
Nanak, she alone is the chaste bride, who merges in the being of her Beloved spouse.
In Bhadon, the bride in the bloom of youth strays in doubt, but she afterwards regrets.
The ponds and meadows are filled with water. It is the rainy season the time of merry-making.
It rains during the dark night How can the young bride have peace? The frogs and peacocks shriek.
'Beloved, my beloved' cries and shrieks the pied-cuckoo and the snakes go about biting.
The mosquitoes sting and the pools are filled to the brim. Without her Lord, how can the wife obtain comfort?
I will ask my Guru and walk accordingly. Wherever is my Lord, there shall I go.
In Assu, come O my Beloved. Thy wife is repining herself to death.
If the Lord makes her meet, then alone can she meet with Him, but the bride is ruined by the love of another.
When the bride is disfigured by falsehood, then the Spouse forsakes her. Then bloom the reed and Tamarisk diocia.
Summer is left behind and the winter season lies ahead. Seeing this play my mind wavers.
All over the ten sides the branches are green and verdant. That, which slowly ripens, is sweet.
Meet Thou me, O my Love in Assu. The True Guru has become my mediation.
In Katak, what pleases the Lord, that is recorded in the mortal's destiny.
The lamp, which is lit by quintessence, that easily burns.
Love is the oil of the lamp, that unites the bride with her Groom. The bride is in bliss and bloom.
She, whom sin kills, becomes not fruitful at her death. When killed by virtue, then dies she really.
They, whom Thou, O Lord, bless with Thy Name and devotional service, sit in their own home. Even then their hope rests on Thee.
Says Nanak, "O Lord, open the shutters of Thy door and meet me. A moment, now, is like six months to me".
Good is the month of Maghar for those, who merge in the Lord's Being, by singing His praise.
The virtuous wife utters the Lord's praise. My ever-stable Love is pleasing to me.
Moveless, Wise and Omniscient is my Creator-Lord, but the whole world is movable.
They, who possess the virtue of gnosis and meditation, merge in the Lord's Being. They are pleasing to the Lord and the Lord is pleasing to them.
The songs, music and the poems of poets have I heard, but it is through the Lord's Name that sorrow flees.
Nanak, only that bride is dear unto her Groom, who in His presence performs the hearty service of her Beloved.
In Poh, the snow falls and the sap of the forest and grass dries up.
O Lord, why come Thou not? Thou abide within my soul, body and mouth.
God, the Life of the world is permeating my mind and body. Through the Guru's word, enjoy I his love.
The Lord's Light is contained in the egg-born, the foetus-born, the sweat-born, the earth-born and all the hearts.
O Lord of compassion, the Beneficent One, bless me with Thy vision and grant me understanding, that I may obtain salvation.
Nanak, with love and pleasure, God, the Enjoyer enjoys the bride, who bears Him Love and affection.
In the month of Magh I become immaculate by realising that the place of pilgrimage is within me.
I have easily met my Friend, by enshrining. His virtues and merging in His Being.
Hear Thou me, O my darling and beauteous Lord; Thine merits I have enshrined in my mind. If it pleases Thee, I shall bathe in Thy tank.
The Ganges, the Jamna, the confluence of three streams, seven oceans are contained in,
charity, alms and worship the Lord's Name. I realise that the one Lord is pervading in every are.
Nanak, in Magh, the ablution at the sixty-eight holies is contained in the meditation of Supreme elixir of the Lord's Name.
In Phagan, the soul of those, to whom Lord's love is pleasing is in bloom.
She, who effaces her self-conceit, night and day abides in spiritual bliss.
When it pleases Him, efface I the worldly Love from my mind and the Lord mercifully comes to my home.
Though I may wear many grabs, yet without Love, I shall find not a place in His mansion.
When my Beloved so wished, I decorated myself with garlands, strings of pearls, perfumes and raiments of silk.
Nanak, the Guru has united me with God and I, the bride, have obtained my Groom in my very home.
The two and ten (twelve) months, the seasons, the lunar days are all sublime,
including the week days, the hours, the minutes and moments, when the True Lord comes and naturally meets me.
The sweet Master has met me and mine affairs are arranged. The Creator-Lord knows all the ways.
I am dear unto Him, who has embellished me. I have met Him and enjoy His Love.
The couch of my home becomes beauteous, when my Beloved enjoys me. By the Guru's grace, the destiny of my forehead is awakened.
Nanak, day and night, my Beloved enjoys me and obtaining God as my Spouse my married life has become eternal.
Tukhari 1st Guru.
O bride with beauteous eyes, in the first watch of the dark night,
watch thou thy property, O mortal. Thy Turn shall soon come.
When thy turn comes, who shall awake thee? As thou sleep, thine life's sap shall be sucked by the death's courier.
The night is dark, the thieves shall break into and rob thy home, What shall become of thy honour then?
O my Inaccessible and Infinite protector, hear Thou my supplication.
Nanak, the fool remembers not the Lord ever, What can he see in the dark night.
The Second watch has dawned. Awake thou, O unconscious one.
Guard thy riches, O mortal. Thy farm is being eaten up.
Protect thou thy crop and love thy Guru-God. While thou are awake, the thief shall rob thee not.
Thou shall not go the way of Death's courier and suffer not sorrow. Thy fear and dread of death shall flee.
Through the Guru's instruction, with thy mind and mouth, remember thou the True Lord, in whose power are the lamps of the sun and the moon.
Nanak, even now the fool contemplates not his Lord. How can he obtain peace in duality?
The third watch has set in and the mortal is overtaken by sleep.
Through wealth, children and wife, he writhes in pain.
Riches, children, wife and the world are dear to him. He pecks at the bait and is ever entangled.
If under the Guru's instruction, he meditates on the Name, then he obtain peace, and death seizes him not.
Coming, going and death leave him not and without the Name, he is afflicted.
Nanak, in the third watch, under the influence of the three-phased mammon, the men are engrossed in worldly love.
The fourth watch has come and the day of death is about to dawn.
They, who remain wakeful night and day, save their home.
The night is peaceful for those, who under the Guru's counsel remain watchful and apply themselves to the Lord's Name.
They, who act according to the Guru's instruction, are not born again and God Lord befriends them.
Their hands shake, feet and frame totter, eyes grow dim and body becomes like dust.
Nanak, without the Lord's Name abiding in the mind, the mortal remains miserable throughout the four ages.
The knot of thy body is loosed, arise thou, the written order for thee has come.
Revelments and comforts are banned and death takes man captive and goads him on.
When it pleases the Lord, without being seen or heard, death arrests and dispatches the mortal.
His turn comes to every one. The ripe crop is ever mowed down.
An account of every moment and instant is taken and the soul has to suffer for good and bad deeds.
He, the Lord has so arranged the play that through the Name the angelic persons are united with their Lord.
Tukhari 1st Guru.
The meteor has arisen. How can the Lord be seen with the eye?
The True Guru shows the Lord to the perfectly fortunate slave of his.
Whomsoever the Guru shows the Lord, he mediates on the True Name and day and night beholds and contemplates.
God His five outgoing organs are help, he knows the Lord's mansion and slays Lust, wrath and wickedness.
His within is illumined by the Guru's instruction and he sees the Lord's wondrous plays.
Nanak, slaying his ego he is propitiated. Lo, the trailing star has arisen.
The Guru-wards remain awake. The self-conceit is annulled.
They are ever blessed with the dawn of wisdom and merge in the True Name.
The Guru-wards, who are merged in the True Name are pleasing to the Lord's mind. The saints remain whole and wakeful.
The Guru blesses them with the Nectar of the True name and they are attuned to the Lord's feet.
Within them becomes manifest the illumination of gnosis and through that illumination know they their Lord, but the egocentrics stray in doubt.
Nanak, when the dawn of wisdom breaks, their mind is propitiated and they pass their Life night-awake.
When man forsakes his vice, the virtues come to abode within him. The one Lord is pervading all.
There is not another second.
He, the Lord, is permeating all. There is not any other. Belief comes to the mind from the mind itself.
He, who has established the water, the land, the three worlds and all the hearts, that Lord is known by the Guru's grace.
The Lord is the Cause of, All-powerful and Infinite, Effacing the three-phased mammon, one merges in Him.
Nanak, man's vices then merge in virtues. Such an understanding, he obtains from the Guru.
My coming and going, have ended and my misgiving is removed.
Stilling my self-conceit I have met my Lord and now wear the apparel of Truth.
The Guru has rid me of ego, I have become renowned and my sorrows and sufferings are dispelled.
My light is merged in the supreme Light and I have recognised my ownself.
At the parents, I am propitiated with the Name, so at my in-laws I shall be pleasing to my Spouse.
Nanak, the True Guru has united me in the Lord's union and my subservience of people is ended.
Tukhari 1st Guru.
The bride is strayed by doubt and erring again and again she regrets.
Forsaking her Groom she is gone asleep and knows not His worth.
Leaving her Spouse, she goes to sleep and so is she beguiled by sins Painful are the nights of that bride.
She is destroyed by lust, wrath and ego and continues to burn in self-conceit.
When soul-swan flies away, under the Lord's command, her dust mingles with dust.
Nanak without the True Name, the bride repeatedly strays and repents.
O my dear Spouse listen one supplication of mine.
Thou abide in Thine own Home and rolling about I now say or do?
Without my spouse, none likes me. What should I now say or do?
Through the Guru's instruction, with my tongue, quaff I the immortalising Nectar-Name which is the Nectar of all the Nectars.
Without the Name, no one is man's friend and comrade. Without it millions continue coming and going.
Says Nanak, true, true is thine instruction, O Guru by which man departs to the Lord's Home, after reaping profit.
O my Friend, from thy home land, Thou are gone abroad, I send messages of love to Thee.
I, the bride, heartily remember that Friend and my eyes are brimful with treas.
Thy bride's(Mine) eyes are brimful with tears. I utter Thine praise. How can I meet Thee, O my loved Lord?
I know not the arduous way and path to Thee. How can I reach Thee, O Love, at the yonder shore?
By the True Guru's word, I, the separated bride, can meet with Thee, by placing before Thee my body and soul.
Nanak, the ambrosial tree bears the most delicious fruits. Meeting with Thee, my Love, their relish is tasted.
O Thou, delay not, Thy Lord has summoned thee into His presence.
O Thou, who are night and day imbued with His love, shall easily meet with Him.
By not harbouring wrath and slaying thy ego thou shall obtain celestial bliss and merge in thy Lord.
She is imbued with truth, and united by the Guru, meets with her Groom, while the egocentric continues coming and going
When thou take to dancing, what is, then, veil to thee? Breaking the pitcher (of worldly attachment), be thou detached.
O Nanak, understanding thy ownself, by the Guru's grace, reflect thou on the quintessence.
Tukhari 1st Guru.
My Beauteous Beloved, I am the slave of Thine slaves.
The Guru has shown me the Invisible Lord and now I seek not any other.
When the Master showered His benediction and when it so pleased the Guru, he showed to me the Unseeable Lord.
The Beneficent Creator-Lord, the Life of the world and the Master of woods is met through resignation and faith.
If Thou, O Lord, show mercy and save me, then alone can I be save, O compassionate to the poor, bless Thou me with Thy True Name.
Prays Nanak, Thou are the Cherisher of all the beings, O Lord, and I am the slave of Thine slaves.
My exceedingly sweet Guru is enshrined in the Fully-filling Lord.
The Guru, the embodiment of God, remains absorbed in the Lord's Name.
The Guru-God has installed the three world. His limit can be found not.
The Lord has created beings of various colours and kinds. His bounties increase day by day.
The Infinite Lord Himself makes and unmakes. Whatever pleases Him that comes to pass.
Nanak, the mind jewel is pierced through by the Guru's mind jewel and man weaves Himself into the garland of virtues.
The virtuous man merges in the virtuous Lord and his brow is stamped with Lord's Name.
The true person merges in the True Lord and his comings and goings cease.
The true person, who realises the True Lord and is imbued with truth meets with the true One and becomes pleasing to His mind.
No one is seen above the True Lord. The man of truth merges in the True One.
The Fascinating Lord has fascinated my mind and loosening my bonds has set me free.
Nanak when I met with my most darling Guru my light merged in this Supreme Light.
Through search, one finds the True Home, the abode of the True Guru.
The egocentric obtains not Divine comprehension, through the Guru.
Whomsoever the Lord blesses with the gift of His True Name, he becomes acceptable. The supremely wise Lord is ever the Giver.
The Lord is known to be Imperishable, Unborn and ever stable. Primordial is His True mansion.
The day to day account is writ not of the deeds (borrowed goods) of Him, on whom the Light of God, the Enemy of ego, has become manifest.
Nanak, the True person is absorbed in the True Lord and by the Guru's grace crosses the world-stream.
Tukhari 1st Guru.
O my ignorant and unconscious soul, reform thou thyself.
O my soul, forsake thou thine vice and be absorbed in virtues.
Thou are deluded by many worldly pleasures and practice evil deeds, Thus separated thou shall meet not thy Lord.
How can the impassable world ocean be ferried across? One is overawed with the fear of death. Agonising is the path of the death's courier.
Man knows not his Lord in the eve and morn When entangled in the difficult path what will he do then?
Bound with bound he is released only in this way, that by the Guru's grace he serves one God, the Man-lion.
O my soul, abandon thou the household involvements.
O my soul, serve thou thy detached Lord Master.
Meditate thou on the One True Lord, who has created the whole universe.
The Great-God has kept within bounds the air, water and fire and has displayed the world play.
If thou meditate on the Lord's Name, thou shall of thyself, have good conduct, self-discipline, worship and penance.
God's Name is thy comrade, kinsman and dear friend. Remember and contemplate it thou.
O my soul, remain thou steady and then thou shall not bear the blows.
O my soul, singing God's praise thou shall easily merge in Him.
Hymning the Lord's praise with love and applying the collyrium of the Guru's gnosis to thine eyes, thou shall become happy.
Through the light of the Name, which is the lamp of the three world, thou shall slay the five demons.
Thus allaying thy feat thou shall become fear-free and shall cross the impassable world ocean. Meeting with the Guru thine affairs shall be adjusted.
If thou enjoy the beauty of the Lord's love and affection, the Lord, of Himself, shall show mercy unto Thee.
O my soul, what did thou bring into the world and what shall thou take with thee?
O my soul, when thou dispel thy doubt, then alone shall thou be emancipated.
Amass thou the wealth and capital of the Lord God's Name. Through the Guru's word, thou shall know their worth.
Through the Lord's immaculate Name, thy filth shall be washed off and thou shall know thy True mansion and home.
Through the Name, thou shall obtain honour reach thy 'Home and brushing aside sins, shall in drink the Lord's immortalising Nectar.
Contemplating the Lord's Name, man is blessed with the Lord's elixir and through great good fortune, utters he God's praise.
O my soul, without the Name's ladder, how shall thou mount to the Lord's mansion?
O my soul without the Name's boat, thou shall not reach the yonder shore.
On the yonder shore is thy loved Infinite Friend. The consciousness of the Guru's word alone, shall ferry thee across.
Joining the society of the saints, thou shall enjoy bliss and regret not afterwards.
My compassionate True Lord God, Mercifully bless Thou me with bounty of Thy Name and the society of saints.
Supplicates Nanak, "Hear Thou, O my Loved Lord, instruct Thou My mind through the Guru's word".
Tukhari Chhant 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Within me is the love of my Groom. How can I live without by Beloved.
So long as I have not His vision, how can I in-drink the Name-Nectar?
How can I quaff Nectar and live without God? Without Him I can live not.
Night and day ever cry I "Beloved, my Beloved". Without Spouse my thirst is quenched not.
O my loved God, the Lord Master, shower Thou Thine benediction on me, that I may ever meditate on Thy Name.
Through the Guru's word, I have met with my Love. Unto my True Guru, I am a sacrifice.
When I see my loved God, the Groom, I utter His praise with love.
My within is in bloom and I ever utter, "My Beloved, my True Beloved".
I utter the praise of my sweet Beloved. I am emancipated through His Name and am satiated not without seeing Him.
The Lord's bride, who is ever adorned with the Guru's word, contemplates the Lord Master's Name.
O my Guru, bless then me, thy beggar, with the bounty of thy mercy and unite me with my love.
Night and day meditate I on my Guru-God and am a sacrifice unto the True Guru.
I am a stone in thy boat. O Guru. Take thou me across the dreadful ocean of poison.
Lovingly bless me thou with the Lord's Name and emancipate me, the fool, O Guru.
I, a fool and an idiot, know not Thine extent even a Little. Thou are known to be great and beyond reach.
Thou Thyself are Merciful and mercifully unite me, the virtueless and honourless one, with Thee, O Lord.
Through sons, I have wandered is various species and now have sought Thine refuge, O Lord.
Take Thou pity on me, O Sire Master and save me. I have, now, repaired to the True Guru's feet.
The Guru is the philosopher's stone and through his tough, I, the iron have been transmuted into gold.
My light is merged in the Lord's Light, and now my body fortress looks beauteous.
Captivated by my Lord, my body fortress looks beauteous How can I forget Him with every breath and morsel of mine?
The Unseeable and Incomprehensible Lord, I have seized through the Guru's word. Unto my True Guru, I am a sacrifice.
I would surrender my head to my to my True Guru, if the True Satguru so wills.
Says Nanak, O my Beneficent Lord, Thou Thyself show mercy unto me, that I may merge in Thine Being.
Tukhari 4th Guru.
My Lord Master is Unapproachable, Unfathomable, Illimitable and the Remotest of the remote.
They, who meditate on Thee, O Lord of the universe; those persons cross the arduous and terrible world-ocean.
They who contemplate the Lord God's Name easily swim across the arduous and terrible world ocean.
They, who lovingly walk according to the Guru, the True Guru's word, them the Lord God blends with Himself.
When God, the Support of the world, shows mercy, then one's Light merges in the Luminous Lord.
My Lord God is Unapproachable, Unknowable, Illimitable and the Remotest of the remote.
My Master, Thou are beyond reach and fathomless. Thou are fully contained in every heart.
Thou, o Lord, are Unseen, Inscrutable and Limitless and are found through the great True Guru's word.
Blessed, Blessed are those powerful and perfect persons, who associating with the Saint-Guru's association utter God's praise.
The Guru-wards of discriminating intellect, every moment reflect on the Guru's word and ever utter the Lord's Name.
When the Guru-ward sits, he utters the Lord's Name and when the Guru-ward stands, m even then he repeats the Lord's Name.
Thou, O my Lord, are beyond reach and Unfathomable. Thou are Fully-filling all the hearts.
The servants who serve God and who serve Him under the Guru's instruction, they become acceptable.
Millions of their sins, God all effaces and casts off in an instant.
Of them all sins and blames are washed off, who with their mind and heart mediate on the one Lord.
Fruitful is made by the Creator, the life of those, who through the Guru's word, utter the True Name.
Blessed are the men and great and perfect the persons, who contemplating God, by Guru's instruction cross the terrible and arduous world-ocean.
The servants, who serve God and who serve Him under Guru's instruction, they become acceptable.
Thou Thyself, O my loved God, are the searcher of hearts. As Thou Thyself, of hearts. As Thou make me walk, so do walk I.
Nothing is in my hand. When Thou unite, then I come and unite with Thee.
They whom Thou unite with Thyself, O Lord God, all their account is finally settled.
No one, O brother, should go into the account of those, whom through the Guru's instruction, God has united with Himself.
The Lord becomes merciful into those, who accept the Guru's will as good, O Nanak.
Thou Thyself, O my beloved God, are the Searcher of hearts. As Thou make me walk, so do walk I.
Tukhari 4th Guru.
Thou, O God, are the Life of the world, the Master of the universe and the Creator-Lord of all the creation.
They alone mediate on Thee, O my Lord, on whose brow there is such a primal writ.
They, who by Guru's word dwell on God, all their sins are eradicated in a moment.
They, who by Guru's word dwell on God, all their sins are eradicated in a moment.
Blessed, blessed are the persons, who mediate on the Lord's Name. Seeing them I have been accredited.
Thou, O God, are the Life of the world, the Master of the Universe, and the Creator-Lord of all the creation.
Thou are fully contained in ocean, land and sky. Thou, O True Master are the over Lord of all.
Many, who with their mind and heart mediate on the Lord Master, and who remember and contemplate Him, are emancipated.
The mortals, who remember God, they are delivered. Their faces sparkle in God's court.
These persons become illustrious both in this world and the next one. The Saviour Lord saves them.
O men, my brethren, hear ye God's praise in the saints society. By the Guru's grace, fruitful becomes the Lord's service.
Thou are fully-filling ocean, land and sky, Thou, O True Master, are the over Lord of all.
Thou, O One Lord, but one Lord, are pervading places and inter-spaces.
The forests, the vegetation, the three words and entire creation, with their mouth utter the Lord God's Name.
Everything utters the Name of the Creator-Lord Master. Myriads and numberless beings mediate on God.
Blessed, blessed are the saints end holymen of God, who are pleasing to the Creator-Lord Master.
O my Creator, bless me Thou with the fruitful vision of him, who in his mind ever utters the Lord's Name.
Thou, O One Lord, but one Lord, are pervading all the spaces and inter-spaces.
Innumerable are the treasures of Thine devotional service, O my Lord. He alone is blest with them, whom Thou bless.
God's virtues dwell within the mind of him, on whose forehead is the hand of the Guru.
God's virtues dwell in his mind, within whom is the Lord's fear and Love.
Without the Lord's fear, no one is blessed with His love and without fearing the Lord no one ferries across.
Says Nanak, O Lord, he alone is blest with Thy fear, love and affection, on whom is Thine grace.
Innumerable are the treasures of thine devotional service, O My Lord. He alone is blest with them, whom Thou bless.
Tukhari 4th Guru.
Seeing the sight of the great True Guru, is the real bathing of the Abhaijit festival.
The filth of evil inclinations is washed off and dispelled is the darkness of ignorance.
Having the Guru's vision, spiritual ignorance is dispelled and the light becomes manifest in the mind.
The pain of birth and death is stilled in an instant and the Imperishable God Lord is obtained.
The Creator-Lord Himself created the auspicious occasion, when the True Guru went to Kaurukashetra at the time of the bathing fair.
Having the sight of the Great True, is the real bathing of the Abhaijit festival.
The Sikhs traveled with the Great True Guru along the high way road.
Night and day, every moment and hourly at each step, the Lord's worship was performed.
The Lord Master God's Divine service was held and all the people came to behind the Guru.
Whosoever had the vision of the Guru, the True Guru, him the Lord blended with Himself.
The True Guru made the effort of visiting the pilgrim stations for the sake of saving all people.
The Sikhs traveled with the Great True Guru, along the high way road.
It was an auspicious time, when the Great True Guru first arrived at Kurukashetra.
The news spread through the worlds and the beings of the three worlds came to behold the Guru.
The gods, men, silent sages and all of the three words came to behold him.
They, who obtained the touch of the Perfect Guru, the True Guru, their sins were effaced and dispelled.
The Yogis, the nudes, the solitarians and the men of six system held divine discourse with the Guru and departed after paying obeisance unto him.
It was an auspicious time, when the Great True Guru at first arrived at Kurkshetra.
Secondly the Guru went to Jamna where he uttered the Lord God's Name.
The tax-gatherers met the Guru with offerings and allowed his followers to cross over.
All those in the True Guru's train who contemplated the Lord God's Name were exempted from toll.
They, who follow the way and path of the Guru's word, death's courier, the tax-gatherer comes not near them.
The whole world said 'Guru, Guru', and by uttering the Guru's Name they were all emancipated.
In the second place, the Guru, went to Jamna, where he uttered the Lord God's Name.
Thirdly, the Guru went to the Ganges and a marvellous scene did occur there.
All were bewitched on seeing the vision of the saintly Guru and no one gathered even half a shell as a tax from any one.
Not even half a shell got into the toll-tax and the mouth of the toll-collectors got sealed.
They said, "brethren, what should we do? Of whom should we ask? Everyone is hastily following the True Guru".
All the tax-gatherers, in their wisdom, saw and gave thought to it. They broke their cash-boxes and went away.
Thirdly, the Guru went to the Ganges and there occurred a marvelous scene.
The great men of the city went in a body, and sought the Great True Guru's protection
The Great Guru, the True Guru is himself the Lord, Consul, thou the Simritis. They too establish this truth.
The Simritis and Shastras all prove, that Guru is the embodiment of God Sukhdev and Prahlad meditate on the Guru-God deeming him as the Sire Master.
The five thieves and the way robbers abode in the fortress of the body-city. The Guru has destroyed their abode and habitation.
The Puranas ever sing the praise of giving alms, but it is from Guru Nanak, 's word, that God's devotional service is obtained.
The great men of the city went in a body and sought the Great True Guru's protection.
Tukhari Chhant 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my Beloved, I am a sacrifice unto Thee. Through the Guru, I have surrendered my soul to Thee.
Hearing Thine word, my mind is enraptured.
This mind is happy, like the fish in water and is attached in love to God, the Enemy of ego.
Thy worth, O Lord, can be told not Unrivalled is Thine mansion.
O Lord, the Giver of all virtues, hear Thou the supplication of a meek man.
Bless Thou Nanak with Thy vision O Lord. He is devoted unto Thee, and his soul too is a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto Thee.
This body and mind are Thine, O Lord and all the virtues vest in Thee.
I am each bit a sacrifice unto Thine vision.
Hear Thou, O my Lord, I live, if with mine eyes I see Thy sight even for an instant.
I hear, Thy Name is Nectar. If Thou show mercy unto me, then alone can I drink it.
Like the sparrow hawk for the rain-drop I hope and thirst for Thee, O my Groom.
Says Nanak, my soul is a sacrifice unto Thee, bless me Thou with Thy vision, O Lord.
Thou are the True Lord and the limitless sovereign.
Thou are my Loved Beloved and dear unto my life and mind.
Thou give peace to my soul and are known by the Guru's grace. To love Thee behoves everyone.
The mortal does the deeds, as Thou, O Lord wills.
He, on whom is thy mercy, O Lord of the world, conquers his mind in the world, conquers his mind in the society of the saints
Says Nanak, my soul is a sacrifice unto Thee. Thou, O my God, has blessed me with life and body,
Me, the virtueless one, the Lord has saved for the sake of his saints.
The True Guru has covered up the shame of me, the sinner.
My Lord covers up my shame, He is the Giver of soul, life and peace.
Ever-stable, Ever-present, All-pervading and Omnipotent is my Creator-Lord.
Thine whole praise, O Lord, can be uttered not. Who can say, whence are Thou?
Slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto him, through whom he is blessed with even a particle of Thy Name, O God.
Kedara 4th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my soul, ever sing thou the praise of the Lord's Name.
Inaccessible and Inapprehensible Lord can be seen not. Meeting with the Perfect Guru, He is seen. Pause.
On whomsoever my Lord showers His benediction, That man, He attunes to Himself.
Everyone performs the Lord's service, but he alone, who is pleasing to the Lord, becomes acceptable.
The Lord God's priceless Name is with the Lord. If the Lord blesses us with it, then alone can we contemplate the Name.
To whomsoever, my Lord gives His Name: His entire account is settled.
Blessed are said to be the persons, who mediate on the Lord's Name. On their brow, good destiny is pre-ordained.
Seeing them my heart blooms, Like that of the mother, who meeting her son, hugs him to her bosom.
I am a child, and Thou, O God Lord are my Father. Impart Thou such understanding unto me, by which I may obtain my God.
As the cow, seeing her calf, is pleased, so Thou, O Lord, hug Nanak to Thy bosom.
Kedara 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my soul utter thou the praises of thy Lord God.
Washing and bathing the True Guru's feet, worship thou them. In this way thou shall obtain my Lord Master. Pause.
Lust, wrath, avarice, worldly love, self-conceit and sinful relishes, from their association escape thou, O man.
O man, associating with the society of saints discourse thou on God and discourse thou with the saints. God's love is the panacea of all the ills. The Lord's Name if the home of elixir. Utter thou the Name of God, the Lord Master.
Thy mind's ego and power, which thou think to be much in thee, shed thou these and restrain thine ownself.
O my God, the Lord Master, be Thou Merciful unto slave Nanak and make him the dust of Thine saints' feet.
Kedara 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my mother, in the society of the saints I am awakened. Seeing the love of my beloved, I utter. His Name, the treasure of bliss. Pause.
Thirsting for His vision, mine eyes incessant glance is fixed on Him.
I have forgotten other thirsts now.
I have now found my poise and peace-giving Guru, Seeing his sight, my mind has clung to him.
Seeing my Lord, joy has swelled up in my mind. Nanak, Nectar sweet is the speech of my loved spouse.
Kedara 5th Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Of me, the meek one, hear Thou the supplication, O my Merciful Master.
The five demons and three inimical dispositions, torture my soul. O kind Lord, the Patron of the patronless,
save Thee me from them. Pause.
I make many efforts and go on pilgrimages.
I perform six religious rites and contemplate in the right way.
I have grown weary of making all the efforts, but the fearful sins leave me not, ever.
O Lord of compassion, I seek Thine protection and make obeisance unto thee.
O God Lord, the Immortal Master, Thou are the Destroyer of dread.
Thou alone are compassionate to the meek.
Nanak has the support of the Lord's feet alone.
I have crossed the ocean of doubt and worldly love,
clinging to the feet and skirt of the saints.
Kedara 5th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O Lord, the Treasure of bliss, I have sought Thy refuge.
Within my mind Thy love is enshrined, and I pray for the alms of Thine Name, O God. Pause.
O my peace-giving Perfect Lord, mercifully save Thou my honour.
Bless Thou me with such love, O my Lord God, that in the saints society I may utter Thy praise with my tongue.
O my Merciful God, the cherisher of the world, the Lord of universe and with a string round Thy discourse and Divine knowledge.
Thy belly, immaculate is Thy love, O Lord, and fix his attention with Thine lotus feet.
Kedara 5th Guru.
I have a yearning in my mind for the vision of my God.
In Thy mercy, unite Thou me with the society of saints and bless me with Thy Name. Pause.
Serve I my loved True Lord. Wherever I hear His praise, there my mind is in bloom.
I am ever devoted and a sacrifice unto Thee. How beauteous is Thy abode.
Thou cherish all and Thou take care of all and overall is Thy shade.
Thou are the creator Lord Master of Nanak and he sees Thee in every heart.
Kedara 5th Guru.
Dear unto me is the love of my beloved.
My Lord, joy-immersed is my mind. I think of Thine support and within mine eyes is Thy love. Pause.
How good is that day, watch, moment and trice and how beauteous is that instant and hour,
when the hard shutters are opened, the desire is quenched and I live by seeing Thine sight, O Lord.
Which is the way, what the effort and what service should I think of, to meet Thee, O Lord?
Shed thy self-conceit, pride and worldly love, O Nanak and thou shall be served in the society of saints.
Kedara 5th Guru.
God, God God's praise sing thou, O man.
O my Lord Master, show Thou mercy unto me, make me utter Thy Name. Pause.
My Lord, pull me out of the relish of sins and attach my mind to the society of saints.
Thou show Thy vision unto him who through the Guru's word, is rid of his doubt, dread and secular love.
May my mind be the dust of all. My Master, make me shed my haughty intellect.
O Merciful Master, bless, Thou me with Thy meditation. Through the great good luck, O Nanak, the Lord is obtained.
Kedara 5th Guru.
Without God, the life goes in vain.
Vain is the wearing and eating of him, who abandoning his Lord, is involved in the love of another. Pause.
The enjoyments of wealth, youth, property and pleasures stand not by the man, O mother.
Seeing the optical illusion the mad man is involved therein and is imbued with the passing pleasures like the shade of the tree.
Greatly intoxicated with the wine of self-conceit and worldly love, man has fallen into the pit of lust and wrath.
O reverend Lord, be Thou the succourer of slave Nanak and catching him by the hand, pull Thou him out.
Kedara 5th Guru.
Save the Lord, nothing goes with the man.
God is the Master of the meek, the Lord of mercy and the patron of the patronless. Pause.
The son, wealth and the enjoying of the pleasures of vice, stand not by the man on the Yama's path.
Singing the praise of God, the Name-treasure, the mortal is ferried. across the pit of the world ocean.
Seeking the refuge of the Omnipotent, Ineffable and Inapprehensible God and contemplating Him, mine woes are past.
Humble Nanak, longs for the dust of the feet of God's slave. He shall be blest with it, if it be so preordained on his brow.
Kedara. 5th Guru.
There is but one God By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
From my mind, I forget not my God now.
This love has become very strong now and it has burnt other sinful affections. Pause.
How can the sparrow-hawk forsake the rain-drop? Without water, the flash can live not even for a trice.
With my tongue I utter the praise of the Lord. This has become a part of my nature.
The deer is fascinated with the bell's great note and is pierced through with the sharp arrow.
O Nanak! home of elixir are the Lord's lotus feet. With them I am fastened by means of a knot.
Kedara. 5th Guru.
My Beloved bides in the cave of my mind.
Shatter Thou the wall of doubt, O Lord and holding me, pull Thou me towards Thyself. Pause.
The world-ocean is a great pit. In Thy mercy Thou mount me up to its shore.
In the saints' society, I have realised that the Lord's feet are the boat to ferry me across.
He, who protected thee in the tank of the belly, no other, but He, shall save thee in the world forest of sins.
God's refuge is powerful and potent to do all the deeds. Nanak owes allegiance to none else.
Kedare.5th Guru.
With thy tongue utter thou the Lord's Name.
Uttering the Lord's praise day and night, thine sins shall be eradicated. Pause.
Abandoning all thy riches, thou shall depart O man, know the death hangs over thy head.
Realise thou that short-lived attachment and evil hopes are false for sure.
Within thy mind embrace thou the meditation of the True Lord, the Eternal being.
O Nanak, this profitable commodity of the Name treasure becomes acceptable in the Lord's court.
Kedara 5th Guru.
I have the support of the Lord's Name alone.
Suffering and strife now afflict me not and I deal only with the saints. Pause.
Showing mercy, the Lord Himself has saved me and vice now wells up not in me.
Who-so-ever is destined to receive it; he contemplates the Lord. Him the worldly fire burns not.
Peace, pleasure and bliss well up from the meditation of the God's Name. The most sublime are the Lord's ambrosial feet.
Slave Nanak has sought Thy refuge, O Lord, and he has become the dust of Thine saints' feet.
Kedara. 5th Guru.
Accursed are the ears without the Lord's Name.
Of what avail is the life of those, who live by forgetting God the embodiment of life? Pause.
He, who eats and drinks various viands, is like the load-lifter donkey.
Throughout the eight watches, he suffers a great hardship, like the Bullock, yoked to the oil-press.
Abandoning the Lord, they who are attached to another, they bewail in many a way.
With Joined hands, Nanak asks for a gift, "keep me attached to Thy heart O God".
Kedara 5th Guru.
Taking the dust of the saints' feet, I apply it to my face.
Singing the praises of the ever-pervading Imperishable Lord, the pain of the Dark-age afflicts not the mortal. Pause.
Through the Guru's word, all the affairs are arranged and man reels not hither and thither.
Whosoever sees the one Lord pervading all the various beings, burns not in the fire of vice.
His slave, the Lord holds by the arm and his light merges in the supreme light.
Orphan Nanak has sought the protection of Thine feet, O Lord God and he walks with Thee in Thy will.
Kedara. 5th Guru.
Within my mind is the craving for the Lord's Name.
I am brimful with immense peace and bliss and my burning breast is cooled down. Pause.
Walking in the way of the saints, the millions of sinful mortals are saved.
He, who applies the dust of the feet of the Lord's slave to his forehead acquires the purity of many pilgrim-stations.
Contemplating the Lord's lotus feet in the mind, one sees the Lord in every heart.
Seeking the refuge of the infinite Lord, death's courier tortures not the mortal again.
Kedara Chhant. 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Meet thou me, O my sweet Beloved. Pause.
O He, the creator-Lord is fully contained amongst all.
The Lord God has marked out His path, but it is known through the saints' society.
The creator-Lord is known through the congregation of saints. With mine eyes, I see Him in all the heart.
He, who enters God's sanctuary, obtains all the comforts. The Lord ignores not even iota of service.
He, who hymns Thy praise, O Treasure of virtues; he is easily inebriated with the Supreme Elixir of Divine love.
Thou are the Destiny-scribe. Perfect Lord. Slave Nanak has sought Thine refuge.
God's slave is pierced through with His loving adoration, Where else can he go?
The fish bears not separation and dies without water.
Thirsty like the pied-cuckoo for the rain-drop, how can I live without God and in what way can I endure the pang of separation?
Says the she ruddy goose "when shall the night pass away and I shall obtain peace with the shining of the sun's rays"?
My mind is attached to God's vision. Fortunate are the day and night, when I sing the Lord's praise.
Slave Nanak makes a supplication: "Without Thee, O my God, how can my life linger on"?
As without breath, how can the body obtain glory?
Similarly, without the Lord's sight the holyman obtains not peace even for a moment.
Being without God; that is to suffer pangs of hell. My mind is pierced through with the Lord's lotus feet.
Aesthetic and yet detached is my Lord, to whom the mortal is attuned through the Name. None can ever deny Him.
To go and meet with God and to abode in the society of saints; that bliss can be contained not in the mind.
Be Thou merciful unto me, O the Lord Master of Nanak, that I may blend with Thine feet.
Searching and seeking, I have met with my Lord God, who has shown His mercy unto me.
I am virtueless, groveling and patronless, but the Lord has not thought of my shortcomings.
He has minded not my shortcomings and has blessed me with all the perfect comforts, To Purify the sinners is said to be His innate nature.
Hearing that the Lord is the lover of His saints, I have caught hold of His skirt and I have seen Him fully filling all the hearts.
I have easily obtained the Lord, the ocean of peace, and have thrown off the pain of birth and death.
Holding by the hand, God has saved Nanak His slave, and he has woven like the garland the Lord's Name to his heart.
Rag Kedara. Hymns of Kabir Ji.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
They, who abandon both praise and slander, who reject self-worship and self-conceit,
and who deem iron and gold, the same; they the fortunate are the image of Lord.
Hardly any one is Thine slave, O Lord,
who forsaking lust, wrath, avarice and worldly attachment, sees the Lord's feet. Pause.
The quality of impulse, the quality of ignorance and the quality of goodness; all these are called the creation of Thy power.
The man, who realises the fourth state; he alone obtains the supreme status.
He ever remains desireless of the pilgrimages, fasting-rituals, religious rites, purifications and self-mortification.
Meditating on the Pervading Soul, desire, worldliness and doubt depart.
The mansion, in which the lamp burns; the darkness thereof is dispelled.
Says Kabir, I am the servant of the Lord's slave whose doubt has fled and who knows the Fear-free Lord fully filling all.
Some deal in bronze and copper and some in cloves and betel-nuts.
The saints deal in the Lord's Name. Such is my merchandise.
I have become a dealer in God's Name.
The Priceless diamond has come to my hand, and I have abandoned worldliness. Pause.
When the True Lord attached me, then alone was I attached to Truth. I am the trader of the True Lord.
I have despatched the loads of true goods and they have reached God, the Treasurer.
The Lord Himself is the pearl, jeweller.
Moveless is my Lord-Merchant, who Himself pervades ten directions and Himself moves every thing.
Making my mind the bullock and meditation the road, I have filled my sack with gnosis and have loaded it on the bullock.
Says Kabir, hear O ye saints, my merchandise has reached its destination.
O brute of brawling and uncultured intellect reversing thy breath from the world, turn it towards thy God.
Intoxicate stream that trickles from the furnace of the sublime tenth gate.
O brother, invoke and call upon they Lord for thy assistance.
O saints, ever drink ye this wine, so difficult to obtain and it shall easily quench thy thirst. Pause.
In the Lord's fear is the love. A few, who understand the Lord's love, obtain His elixir, O brother.
As many as are the hearts, in all of them is the Nectar. Him alone, He makes in-drink it, whom He pleases.
There are nine gates to the one body city. Prohibit and restrain thou thy mind from escaping through them.
When the knot of three qualities is loosed, then opens the Tenth gate and the mind becomes inebriated, O brother.
When man fully obtains the fearless status, then cease his sufferings. Says Kabir deliberately.
Turning away from the world I have obtained this wine and am inebriated as if with the grape wine.
Thou are involved in lust, wrath and avarice and know not the way of the One Lord.
With thine burst eyes, thou see nothing and are drowned to death without water.
Why walk thou. O man, in the crooked, crooked, crooked way?
Thou are filled up with bones, skin or ordure and are saturated with evil odour. Pause.
Thou contemplate not thy Lord. In what doubt are thou gone astray? Death is not far from thee.
By various efforts, thou preserve thy body, but it shall last till its life-term is complete.
By one's own doing, one can do not anything. What can a mortal accomplish?
When it pleases Him, man meets with the True Guru and utters the one Name.
Thou abide in the house of sand and puff out thy body, O simpleton.
Says Kabir, the very wise, who remember not their Lord are ultimately drowned.
Crooked is thy turban, crooked thy gait and thou begin to chew betel.
Thou say, "I have no concern with the Lord's love and service. I have business in court".
In thy pride thou has forgotten thy Lord.
Seeing, seeing thy gold and very beauteous bride, thou deem them permanent. Pause.
Thou are engrossed in covetousness, falsehood, sin and great arrogance. In this way thy life is passing away.
Says Kabir, at the last moment death shall come and seize thee, O simpleton.
Beating his drum for four days, the mortal departs.
With so much of his earnings, ready money and buried treasures, he takes nothing with him. Pause.
Sitting at the threshold, his wife wails, and up to the outer gate goes his mother with him.
All men and kindreds in a body go up to the crematorium but soul-swan goes alone.
Those sons, that wealth, that village and city, he shall come not to see again.
Says Kabir, why contemplate thou not thy Lord, O man, thy life is passing away in vain.
Rag Kedara. Hymns of Ravidas Ji.
There is but one God. by the True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
He, who performs six religious rites and belongs to a good family but who enshrines not God's meditation in his mind,
and loves not the discourse of the Lord's lotus feet, is like and equal to pariah.
O my thoughtless mind, remember and contemplate thou thy Lord.
Why look thou not at Balmik?
From what a low caste, what high rank obtained he? Sublime is the Lord's devotional service. Pause.
The enemy of dogs, who was the lowest of all, embraced love for the Lord.
How can poor people praise him? His praise extends to the three worlds.
Ajamal, Pingla the prostitute, Lodiya the hunter and the elephant went to God.
Such evil intellected beings were emancipated. Why should not thou be saved, O Ravidas?
Rag Bhairo. 1st Guru.
There is but One God. True is His Name, creative His personality and immortal His form. He is without fear, sans enmity, unborn and self-illumined. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Without Thee, O Lord, nothing can be done.
Creating the creatures, Thou sees and understand them all.
What should I say? I can say not even a bit.
Whatsoever is, all that is in Thine will. Pause.
Whatever is to be done, that lies with Thee, O Lord.
Before whom should I make a supplication?
I utter and hear Thy Divine word.
Thou Thyself know all, Thine wondrous plays.
Thou Thyself do all and know all.
Says Nanak, "O Lord, Thou establish, disestablish and see all".
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Rag Bhairo. 1st Guru.
By the Guru's word, are emancipated good many silent sages and also cross over Indra, Brahma and their like.
Sanak, Sanadan and many penitent persons, are delivered, by the Guru's grace.
How can the dreadful world-ocean be ferried across without the Lord's Name?
Without the Name, the world is entangled in the disease of duality and is drowned, drowned to death. Pause.
The Guru is God and Unfathomable and Inscrutable is the Guru. Through the Guru's service is acquired the knowledge of the three worlds.
The beneficent Guru, of himself, has given me the gift and I have obtained the Unseeable and Mysterious Lord.
The mind is the kind, the mind is propitiated through the mind itself and the desire is stilled in the very mind.
The mind can unite with God and separated from Him the mind is wasted away. Singing the Lord's praises, the mind is reformed.
In this world, very rare are they, who, through the Guru, still their mind and reflect on the Name.
Nanak, the Lord is fully-filling all and through His True Name one is emancipated.
Bhairo 1st Guru.
When old age overpowers the mortal, his eyes see not, his body withers and death hovers over his head.
Beauty, temporal love and worldly relish are not permanent. How can one escape from the death's noose?
O mortal, mediate thou on God. Thy life is passing away.
Without the True Name, thou shall be released not ever and superfluous shall become thy life. Pause.
In thy body is lust. wrath, ego and worldly love. Very great and difficult to bear is their pain.
By the Guru's grace, lovingly utter thou the Lord's Name with the tongue. In this way, thou shall cross the world-rivulet.
Deaf have become thine ears and worthless thy intellect, but still thou know not thy Lord Master.
The egocentric loses his invaluable life. The blind-man can see not without the Guru.
Whosoever remains detached and desireless amidst desires and lovingly contemplates his Lord,
prays Nanak, he is released by the Guru's grace and is attuned to the Lord's Name.
Bhairo 1st Guru.
The gait becomes clumsy, the feet and hand shake and the body-skin is wrinkled.
The eyes are bedimmed and the ears become deaf and yet the perverse person knows not the Lord's Name.
O blind man, coming into the world, what has thou obtained?
Thou enshrine not thy Lord in thy mind and serve not thy Guru. Thou shall depart wasting even thy capital. Pause.
Thy tongue is imbued not with God's love and whenever it utters, then all that is insipid.
Thou indulge in the slander of the pious persons and becoming a beast, thou shall never be good.
Meeting with the society of the True Guru, only a few obtain the relish of the Name-Nectar.
So long as, man realises not the mystery of the Lord's Name, till then death continues to torture him.
Whosoever is attached to the door of the One True Lord, he knows not ever the door and house of another.
Says poor Nanak, by the Guru's grace I have obtained the supreme status.
Bhairo 1st Guru.
The whole night man wastes in sleep and the day in temporal involvements. Thus his neck is loaded with noose.
Even for a trice, moment and an instant he knows not his Lord, who has created this world.
O my soul, how halt shall thou escape the great calamity?
What did thou bring and what shall thou take with thee? Contemplate thou thy Efficacious Lord. Pause.
Overturned is the heart lotus of egocentric. Paltry is his intellect and blind his mind. From head to foot he is engrossed in worldly affairs.
Death and birth ever hang over thy head, O man, without the Name thy neck shall be caught in the noose.
Staggering is thy gait and blind thine eyes. Thou are conscious not of the Lord's Name, O brother.
The Shastras and Vedas keep man bound to three modes of mammon and he does the blind deeds.
The evil-minded man, bereft of gnosis loses even his capital. How can be earn profit?
Meditating on the Name, one in-drinks the Lord's elixir and is pleased with Truth, O Nanak.
Bhairo 1st Guru.
Whosoever abides with the Guru day and night and whose tongue is imbued with God's love,
and who knows not another but recognises only God's Name, realises God within himself.
He, such a person, is pleasing to my mind.
He slaps his self, remains imbued with the Limitless Lord and per-forms the Guru's service. Pause.
Within and without, He the Immaculate Lord is, Unto that Immaculate Lord is, Unto that Primal Being, make I an obeisance.
God, the Embodiment of Truth is pervading within every heart and amidst all.
They, who are imbued with Truth, their tongue utters the ambrosial True Name and they have not even an iota of the filth of falsehood.
They quaff the pure Name's sweet Nectar and imbued with the Name are blessed with honour.
The virtuous meeting with the virtuous, earn profit, but it is by the Guru's grace alone, that the Name's greatness is obtained.
Nanak, through the Guru's service, all the sorrows are effaced and the Name becomes one's succour.
Bhairo 1st Guru.
The Lord's Name, which is the wealth and support of all, is obtained in the mind by the Guru's grace.
He, who gathers the imperishable wealth of the Name, becomes fruitful and through meditation is attuned to the Lord.
O man, fix thou thy mind with the Lord's devotional service.
Heartily remembering the Lord's Name, by the Guru's grace, the mortal goes to his own home with ease. Pause.
As long as man knows not his Lord, he is never rid of doubt, separation and dread and continues coming and going.
Without the Lord's Name no one obtains salvation and all are drowned to death without water.
Doing the worldly affairs, the ignorant one loses all his honour and is not rid of his doubt.
Without the Guru's word, one is never emancipated and is engrossed in the sizable blind affairs.
My soul is pleased with the Unlineal immaculate Lord and my mind is stilled through the mind itself.
Within and without, I know but one Lord. O Nanak, there is not any other.
Bhairo 1st Guru.
Even though man may give gratuitous feasts, make burnt offerings, offer alms, perform penance and worship and ever endure bodily pain and suffering,
But without the Lord's Name he obtains not emancipation and the redeeming Name, one gathers by the Guru's grace.
Without the Lord's Name, useless is man's birth,
he eats poison, utters poisonous words and dies unprofitable death to wander in existences. Pause.
To read scriptures, to reflect upon grammar and to say prayers three times a day, avail not.
Without Guru's word, where is emancipation. O mortal! Without the Lord's Name, one is entangled to death,
Ascetic's staff, begging-bowl. hair-tuft, sacred thread, loincloth, pilgrimage to holies and excessive wandering abroad bring not peace.
Without the Lord's Name, peace is obtained not. He who utters the Lord God's Name swims across.
Though man may weave his matted hair into a crown, apply ashes to his body and doffing his clothes make his body naked.
Yet without the Lord's Name, he is satiated not. Bound to the prenatal deeds he assumes sectarian garb.
As many as are the creatures and living beings in the ocean, land, underworld and sky or where-so-ever they are; amongst them all, Thou O Lord, are contained.
By the Guru's grace, O Lord, preserve Thou Nanak. Thy slave, stirring thine elixir has drunk it.
Rag Bhairo 3rd Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
No one should be proud of his caste.
He alone is a Brahman who knows his Lord.
O stupid fool, be thou not proud of thy caste.
From this pride many sins well up. Pause.
Every one says there are four castes.
But they all proceed from the Lord's seed.
The whole world is made out of one clay.
But the Potter has fashioned it into vessels of many sorts.
Meeting together, the five elements make up the body's form.
No one can say that any element is less in one and more in another.
Says Nanak, this soul is fettered by its acts.
Without meeting the True Guru, it is emancipated not.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
The Yogis, the householders, the literate and the sectarians;
they all are asleep in their self-conceit and
remain asleep intoxicated of the ego of wealth.
Any one, who remains awake; he is robbed not. Pause.
He alone remains wakeful, whom True Guru meets.
Such a man, overpowers the five demons.
He alone remains awake, who reflects on quintessence.
He kills his ego and slays not others.
He alone keeps wakeful who knows the one Lord.
He leaves the service of others and realises the Real Thing.
Out of the four castes, whosoever keeps (spiritually) awake;
is released from birth and death.
Says Nanak, that man alone remains awake,
who applies to his eyes the collyrium of Divine knowledge.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
Whomsoever the Lord keeps in His refuge,
he is attached to the True Name and receives the True Fruit.
O man, before whom are thou to lodge a complaint?
In the Lord's will everything happens and in the Lord will the affairs are adjusted. Pause
My Master, this world is installed by Thee.
Thou destroy it in an instant and make no delay in creating it again.
By His pleasure the Lord has staged a play.
By the Guru's grace, I have obtained the supreme status.
Says Nanak, that Lord alone destroys and creates all.
So know it thou, Let no one stray in doubt.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
I am the bride. My Groom is the Creator Lord.
As He makes me do so make I the embellishments.
When it pleases Him, then does He enjoy me.
My body and soul, I have dedicated unto my True Lord. Pause.
How can one praise or slander another,
when He, the one Lord, is Himself pervading in all?
By the Guru's grace, I am attracted by the love of my spouse
Hymning the five melodies, I shall meet with my Merciful Master.
Says Nanak, what can any one do?
He alone meets Him, whom He, the Lord, unites with Himself.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
He alone is the silent sage, who stills his mind's duality.
Silencing his duality, he reflects on the Lord.
Let some one search this mind of his, O brother!
Searching his mind, he obtains the Name's nine treasures. Pause
The Creator-Lord has created the world, on the foundation of worldly attachment.
Attaching the world with mine-ness, He has strayed it in doubt.
From this mind are all the bodies and life-breaths.
Realising the Lord's will, through hearty meditation, one merges in Him.
Whosoever has good destiny; on him the Guru showers his benediction.
Then is this mind awakened and stilled is the duality of the mind.
The mind's innate is ever to remain detached.
The Uncontaminated and unattached, Lord abides within all the hearts.
Says Nanak, he who understands this mystery;
he becomes the embodiment of the Primal Being, the Immaculate Lord.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
Emancipation of the world is through the Lord's Name.
It ferries the mortals across the dreadful world ocean.
By the Guru's grace, meditate thou on God's Name,
it shall stand by thee for ever. Pause.
The egocentric fools contemplate not the Name,
without the Lord's Name, how shall they ferry across?
The Beneficent Lord Himself gives gifts.
Hail, hail is unto the Beneficent Lord.
Showing His mercy, the Lord unites man with the True Guru,
and enshrines the Name in his mind, O Nanak.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
All the men, that have been saved, have been through the Name.
They, who are blessed with it, are blessed by the Guru's grace.
When the Sire Lord shows His mercy,
then through the Guru, He blesses man with the Name's glory. Pause.
They, who love the Lord's lovely Name;
they save themselves and save their entire lineage.
Without the Name, the egocentrics go to the Yama's city.
They suffer sorrow and bear the blows.
When, He the Creator-Lord, Himself gives,
then alone, O Nanak, the man receives the Name.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
The Lord's love has emancipated Sanak and others the like him.
because they meditated on the Name of their Lord Master.
O Sire Lord, shower Thou Thy benediction on me,
so that I may embrace love for Thine Name, by the Guru, grace. Pause.
Whosoever has the true loving adoration in his mind;
through The Perfect Guru he meets with his Lord.
He naturally abides in his own Home.
By the Guru's grace, the Name comes to bide in his mind.
The seeing Lord, of Himself sees all.
Clasp thou His Name, to thy heart, O Nanak.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
In the Dark-age, enshrine thou the Lord's Name,
without Name one blows ashes on one's face.
Difficult to obtain is the Lord's name, O brother.
By the Guru's grace, it comes to bide in the mind. Pause.
That person alone seeks the Lord's Name,
who is destined to receive it from the Perfect Guru.
Approved are the persons, who accept the Guru's word,
and they come to bear the distinctive mark of the Name.
Serve thou Him, who by His might, is upholding the universe.
O Nanak, love thou the Lord's Name, by the Guru's grace.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
In the Iron age, men perform many rituals.
they do not consider it as the propitious season, and so the deeds fruition not.
In this Dark age, the most sublime is the Lord's Name.
By Guru's grace, the mortal is attuned to Truth. Pause.
Searching my body and mind, I have obtained the Lord in my very home.
The pious person yokes his mind to the Lord's Name.
The salve of Divine Knowledge is obtained from the True Guru.
The Lord's Name is pervading the three worlds.
The Dark age is the time to sow the one Lord's Name within the mind. It is not the season to sow aught else.
By the Guru's grace, O Nanak, grow thou the Lord's Name within thy mind.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The apostates are afflicted with the disease of duality and excessively burn in desire.
They repeatedly die and are reborn and find no place of rest. Their life, they waste away in vain.
My Beloved, showering Thy benediction, make thou me understand Thee.
O Lord, the world created by Thee, is enveloped in the malady of self-conceit, and without the Name this malady is eradicated not. Pause.
Good many silent sages read Simritis and Shashtras, but without the Lord's Name; they attain not understanding.
All the mortals of three qualities are involved in disease and through worldly love lose their Divine consciousness.
O Lord Master, Thou of Thyself save some and Thyself yoke them to the service of the Guru.
They are blessed with the treasure of God's Name and peace comes to bide within their mind.
The Guru-wards abide in the fourth state. They acquire an above in their own Home.
The Perfect True Guru shows their self-conceit from within them.
The One Lord, who created Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva, has enjoined upon everyone, His service alone.
Nanak, ever-stable is the One True Lord. He neither dies, nor is born.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
The egocentric is ever diseased with the disease of duality. With this disease the entire world is diseased.
Realising the Reality and reflecting over the Guru's word, the Lord conscious being is rid of this ailment.
My Reverend Lord, unite Thou me with the society of saints.
O Nanak, the Lord blesses him with glory, who fixes his mind with His Name. Pause.
Death punishes them all, who are involved in the ailment of worldly love. They are the subject of the death's courier.
Death's myrmidon comes not near the holyman, who keeps. God enshrined within his mind.
He who knows not the Lord's Name, through the Guru, why did he come into this world?
He serves not the Guru ever and loses his life in vain.
Nanak, perfectly fortunate are they, whom the True Guru yokes to his service.
They obtain the fruit, which they desire, and are blessed with peace through the Guru's word.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
In pain man is born, in pain he perishes and in pain he does his deeds.
He is released not of the womb existences ever and putrefies in ordure.
Accursed, accursed is the egocentric who loses away his life (in vain).
He serves not the Perfect Guru and loves nor the Lord's Name. Pause.
Guru's word eradicates all the diseases. He alone attaches to the word, whom the Reverend Lord attaches.
Through the Name of the Name incarnate Lord, honour is obtained. He alone receives it within whose mind the Lord enshrines Name.
If man meets with the True Guru, then gathers he the fruit. The true way of life is the most sublime bliss.
Immaculate are the persons, who are attached to the Lord God, and who enshrine love, for His Name.
If I obtain the dust of the feet of those, who contemplate on my Perfect True Guru; then with that I will anoint my forehead.
Nanak, through perfect destiny is obtained the dust of the feet of those who fix their mind with the Lord's Name.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
True is the person, who reflects on the Name and within whose mind is He, the True Lord.
If man performs the Lord's true service day and night, then his body suffers not sorrow.
Devotee of God, devotee of God, every one says, he is.
Without serving the True Guru, Divine devotion is obtained not. Through perfect destiny, He, the Lord is met. Pause.
The perverse persons, lose their capital and ask for profit. How can they gather profit?
Death's minister is over their head and through the love of another, they lose their honour.
Assuming many garbs, they wander about day and night and their ailment of ego is eradicated not.
Reading extensively they quarrel and enter into controversies and attached to mammon they lose their Divine consciousness.
They, who serve the True Guru, are blessed with the supreme status and through the Name attain to glory.
Nanak, they within whose mind the Name abides; they obtain honour in the True court.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
The egocentrics are rid not of hope they are ruined by the love of another.
Like a stream, his belly is filled not ever, and the fire of desire consumes him.
Ever happy are they, who are imbued with the Lord's elixir.
Within their heart is the Lord's Name, and duality flees from their mind. Quaffing the Lord God's Nectar, they remain satiated. Pause.
The Transcendent Lord, who created the world, of Himself, Yokes all beings to tasks.
He the Lord, who, of Himself, has created love for riches, of Himself, attaches the mortals to duality.
If there be some one else, I may say something to him. Ultimately all merge in Thee.
The God-conscious being reflects on the Reality of gnosis and his light merges in the supreme light.
True, ever true is He, the Lord. Having emanated from Him all the forms are true.
Nanak, the True Guru has made me understand, that through the True Name one is emancipated.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
In God age, men were supreme swans, for they reflected on the Lord. In the Iron age, they who realise not their Lord are but goblins.
In the silver age and Brass age men were but men, but rare was the man who silenced his ego.
In the Dark age one obtains glory through the Lord's Name.
In every age, the pious persons know but one God, without whose Name, emancipation is attained not. Pause.
To the mind of the Lord's True slave, the Name is revealed and by the Guru's grace, it is enshrined in his heart.
They, who are attuned to the Lord's Name emancipate themselves and emancipate all their generations as well.
My Lord is the Giver of merits, and through His Name burns away demerits.
Beauteous are the persons, within whose heart the Name abides. In their mind they enshrine the Name.
The True Guru has shown me the Lord's Home, court and mansion and with love, I revel in joy.
Whatever the Lord says, that Nanak accepts as good and utters he the Name.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
Reflecting over the Guru's word, thy mind's desires, merge thou in the mind itself.
From the Perfect Guru, under standing is obtained and then one dies not again and gain.
Within my mind is the support of the Lord's Name.
By the Guru's grace, I have been blessed with the supreme status. The Lord is the Fulfiller of all the aspirations. Pause.
The One Lord is contained amongst all, but without the Guru, this understanding is attained not.
By the Guru's grace, my God Lord has become manifest unto me and I now night and day hymn God's praise.
The Dispenser of peace is the One Lord alone. From no other place, can peace be procured.
They, who serve not the beneficent True Guru, ultimately depart regretting.
Serving the True Guru, man is over blessed with and pain overtakes him not, again.
Nanak is blessed with God's meditation and his soul has merged in the supreme soul.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
Without the Guru, the world is gone mad and going astray suffers strokes.
It repeatedly dies, is born and ever suffers sorrow, but has no intelligence of the Lord's door.
O my soul, ever remain thou under the protection of the True Guru.
They to whose mind God's Name ever seems sweet; by the Guru's word, they ferry across the terrible world ocean. Pause.
The mortal assumes religious garbs, his mind greatly wobbles and within his mind is just, wrath and ego.
Within him is an exceedingly great thirst and hunger and he wanders about from door to door.
They who die by the Guru's word; they come to life again and obtain the door of emancipation.
They are blessed with mental solace and eternal peace and they keep God enshrined in their heart.
As it pleases Him, so drives He the mortals, Naught else can be done.
Nanak, by the Guru's grace, one contemplates the Name and then is blessed with the glory of the Lord's Name.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
Whosoever strays in self-conceit, riches and worldly love; he earns pain and pain he eats.
Within him is the great ailment of the rabid-ness of avarice and he wanders about bereft of the Divine comprehension.
Accursed is the life of an egocentric in this world.
The Lord's Name, he remembers not even in dream and never cultivates affection for his God. Pause.
He does the deeds of a beast and understands not. Practising falsehood, he becomes false.
When man meets with the True Guru, then turns he away from the world. Rare is the one who searches and finds out the Lord.
He, within whose mind the Lord God's Name ever abodes, obtains Lord, the Treasure of virtues.
Obtaining the Perfect Lord, God's Name ever abodes, obtains Lord, the Treasure of virtues.
The Creator, of Himself, does and causes to be done. He Himself puts on the right path.
O Nanak, God of Himself blesses the Holyman with glory and merges him in his Name.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
On my tablet write down only the Name of God, the Lord of world and the cherisher of the universe.
Through love of another, one is entrapped in the noose of death.
Only the True Guru Sustains me.
The peace-giving Lord is ever with me.
In accordance with the instruction of his Guru, Prahalad the child, utters the Name of God,
and is not terrified by the teacher's admonition. Pause.
The mother counsels her dear son, Prahlad:
My son, abandon thou the Lord's Name and save thy life.
Says Prahlad, "Hear, thou, O my mother".
The Lord's Name, I shall abandon not. My Guru has instructed me this wise.
Sanda and Marka, Prahlad's teachers, going to the king's court, lodged a complaint.
Prahlad himself is gone astray and also strays all other pupils.
In the court of the wicked, a plot was hatched.
God, the King of Raghwas becomes the saviour of Prahlad.
Harnakash ran to slay Prahlad, holding sword in his hand and with great pride, and said:
Where is thy God, who shall save thee?
Tearing asunder the pillar, in an instant, the Lord emerged in a dreadful form.
Harnakash was torn with the nails and Prahlad was saved.
Sire Lord accomplishes the tasks of the saintly persons,
and He delivered the twenty-one generations of Prahlad, the saint.
By the Guru's word, the poison of self-conceit is neutralised.
Nanak, through the Lord's Name, the saints are emancipated.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
The Lord, of Himself, makes these phantoms pursue the holy men and He Himself saves them.
They who ever abode in thine sanctuary, O Lord, their mind is afflicted not with sorrow.
In every age, the Lord has been saving the honour of His devotees.
Prahlad, the demon's son knew naught of the Hindu primal sermon and water-offering to ancestors. Through the Name, he was united in the Lord's union. Pause.
Day and night, he ever devoted himself to the Lord's meditation and through the Name was rid of his duality.
Ever immaculate are they, who are imbued with Truth. He, the True Lord abides in their mind.
The fools read for sake of secular gain and realise not the Primal Lord. So they waste away their life in vain.
The wicked demon slandered and vexed the saintly person.
Prahlad reads not of duality, abandons not the Lord's Name and is frightened not by any one's frightening.
The venerable Lord become the saviour of the pious person and the death of the demon drew near.
The Lord, of Himself, saves His honour and blesses His saints with glory.
O Nanak, Harnakash was torn by the Lord with His nails. The blind demon knew not the Lord's court.
Rag Bhairo. 4th Guru. Chaupadas
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Showering His benediction, God attaches the mortals the feet of the saints.
By the Guru's instruction, meditate thou on thy God with absorbed attention.
O my soul, utter thou the Name of thy God Lord.
If the bliss-bestowing Lord Master shows mercy, through the Lord's Name, one crosses the dreadful world-ocean, by the Guru's grace. Pause.
Meeting with the society of saints, sing thou the Lord's praise,
and through the Guru's instruction obtain Lord the Home of elixir.
Bathe thou, O men, in the Saint Guru's ambrosial tank of Divine knowledge.
Thus all thine vices and sins be eradicated and eliminated.
Thou Thyself, O Creator-Lord are the support of the world.
My master, unite Thou with Thee, thy slave Nanak, who is the serf of Thine serfs.
Bhairo 4th Guru.
Fruitful is the moment, when the Lord's Name is uttered.
Through the Guru's instruction, all the sorrows are eliminated.
O my soul, utter thou the Name of thy God, the Man-lion.
Mercifully, unite Thou me with Perfect Guru, O Lord. Meeting with the saints society, I shall cross the dreadful world ocean. Pause.
O my mind, remember and contemplate thou thy God, the life of the world.
Thus, millions over millions of thy sins shall be washed off when the dust of the saints.
When the mortal is affected by society of the saints (the dust of their feet falls on his face),
then he is deemed to have bathed in the sixty eight holies and the Ganges.
Unto me, the fool, God has shown His mercy.
The saviour Lord has saved Nanak, His slave.
Bhairo 4th Guru.
The doing of pious deeds is the sublime rosary.
Tell thou its beads with thy heart and it shall go with thy heart and it shall go with thee.
Meditate thou on the Name of the Flower-girt Lord Master.
Take Thou pity on me, O Lord and unite me with the society of saints, that my noose of the fatal mammon be snapped. Pause.
Whosoever, by the Guru's grace, performs the Lord's service and labour,
he is fashioned afresh in the Lord's True mint.
The Guru has shown me the inaccessible, Inapprehensible and the Care-free Lord.
Searching Within the township of the body I have found out my God.
I am a child and God is my nursing Father.
O Father, emancipate Thou Thy slave Nanak, by beholding him with Thine eye of grace.
Bhairo 4th Guru.
O God, all the hearts are Thine and Thou abide amongst all.
There is naught that is without Thee.
O my soul, mediate thou on the peace-giving God.
I praise Thee. Thou are my God Lord, my Father. Pause.
Wheresoever I see, there I see the Lord God alone.
All are under Thine sway, There is not any other second,
Whomsoever, Thou want to save, O Lord,
near him no one can come (is not harmed by anyone).
O Lord, Thou are fully-filling the water, the dry land, under-world, sky and all places.
O slave Nanak, contemplate thou thy ever-present Lord.
Bhairo. 4th Guru.
There is but one God By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
God's saint is the embodiment of the Lord God, he, who within his mind enshrines the Name of God, the Enemy of ego.
He, on whose forehead good destiny is recorded, through the Guru's instruction he contemplates within his mind God's Name.
Enshrining Him in thy heart, O man, remember thou thy God, the lover of Nectar.
Within the township of the body abide the five fugitive thieves. By the Guru's Divine instruction. I have beaten them off. Pause.
They, whose mind is propitiated with their God; their affairs God Himself adjusts.
They whose side the Creator-Lord takes; their subservience of people is ended.
If aught be beyond the jurisdiction of the Lord, then alone should we have recourse to counsel and consultation.
Whatever the Lord does, that alone is good, O mortal, night and day ponder thou over the Name of God, the Enemy of ego.
Whatever the Lord does, that He does on His own. He asks and consults not any other.
Ever meditate thou on that Lord, O Nanak, who in His mercy, has united thee with thy True Guru.
Bhairo 4th Guru.
My God Lord, unite me Thou with the saints, contemplating Thee with whom,
I am emancipated seeing their sight, my mind has flowered. Every moment and instant, am I a sacrifice unto them.
Within thy mind, remember thou the Name of God, the slayer of Mur, the demon.
O Father, O Lord of the universe, show Thou mercy, mercy unto me and make me the water-carrier of the slaves of Thine slaves. Pause.
Sublime is their intellect and sublime their honour, within whose mind the flower-gift Lord dwells.
My God Lord, yoke Thou me to their association I shall be emancipated.
They, who obtain not such a saint True Guru; they are thrashed and turned out of God's court.
These slanderous persons obtain not glory. Their noses are slashed by the Creator.
God Himself speaks and Himself makes man speak. The non-eating Lord, of Himself is Immaculate and Formless.
O God, he alone meets with Thee, whom Thou make meet. Says slave Nanak. What is a poor being before Thee?
Bhairo 4th Guru.
O God, that alone is Thine saints guild, where the Lord God's praise is heard.
They who hear God's Name; their mind is drenched in glee. Their feet ever worship I.
Meditating on God, the Life of the world, the mortal swims across.
Myriads and innumerable are Thine Names, O Lord. This tongue of mine can count them not. Pause.
O the disciples of the Guru obtaining instruction from the Guru, utter ye the Lord's Name, hymn ye the Lord's praise and dwell ye on the Lord.
Whosoever hears the instruction of the Guru: that man receives many comforts from the Lord.
Blest is the Lineage, blest the Father and blest the Mother, who gave birth to God's slave.
They who with each breath and morsel remember my God Lord; those men of God, look beauteous in the True court.
O Lord God, O my Lord God, Infinite are Thine Names. Thy saints have treasured them in their mind.
Through the instruction, the Guru's instruction serf Nanak has obtained the Name has obtained the Name and contemplating the Lord Master he is emancipated.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Keeping aside all other lunar days, thou say,
that the Lord was born on the eighth day of moon.
Man, led astray by doubt, does false things.
Without birth and death is He, the Omnipresent Lord. Pause.
Preparing sweets, thou stealthily gives t it to thy stone-god to eat,
O ignorant worshipper of mammon, He, the Lord is not born, nor does he die.
All the sins result from thy giving lullaby to thy stone-god.
May that mouth burn, which says that the Lord enters into existences.
He is not born, nor dies He. He comes and goes not.
The Lord of Nanak is pervading everywhere.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
I am in peace when rising, in peace when sitting,
and feel no fear, when I know this, that,
the one Lord is my Protector,
who is the searcher of all hearts. Pause.
Care-free I sleep and I have no fear when I am awake.
Thou, O Lord, are contained everywhere.
I live in peace at home and find peace abroad,
since the Guru has fixed the Holy word within my mind, O Nanak!
Bhairo 5th Guru.
I practise not fasting, not observe I the month of Ramzan.
I serve Him alone, who will save me in the end.
The One Lord of the world is my God.
He ministers justice to both the Hindus and Muslims. Pause.
I go not on pilgrimage to Mecca, nor worship I at the holies.
I serve only the one Lord and not any other.
I perform not Hindu worship, nor offer I Muslim prayer.
Taking the One Formless Lord into my mind, I make obeisance unto Him there.
I am neither a Hindu, nor a Muslim.
My body and soul belong to Him, who is called God of Muslims and the Lord of Hindus.
Says Kabir, this wise utter I the truth,
that meeting with the Guru the Prophet, I have realised my Lord.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
The ten (organs of action and perception) or (she-deer) I have easily bound down.
The five (demons) or(deer) I have pierced through with the Divine Gurbani.
Taking the saints with me, I go out hunting,
and the deer are caught without horses and weapons. Pause.
Before this, my hunter-mind used to run outside;
but now, I have found the game within the home of my body village.
Turning away from the world, I have caught the deer and brought them home.
Dividing them into their shares, these deer had taken away my virtues bit by bit.
The Lord has given the gift of this game,
to Nanak that in his home resounds only the Name.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Though the mammon-worshipper be induced with hundreds of yearnings and longings (for Lord),
even then he remembers not the Lord Master.
O man, imbibe thou the instruction of the holymen.
In the society of saints, thou shall obtain the supreme state. Pause.
Thought stone be kept under water for a long time,
even then it is wetted not and remains extremely dry.
The reading of the six Shastras to a fool,
is like a wind blowing in ten directions.
As none gains anything by threshing a crop without corn,
similarly one reaps any benefit from a mammon worshipper.
Every one attached to that, to which the Lord attaches him.
Says Nanak, the Lord has made such a make.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
The one who has created man's body and life,
He alone takes care of him in weal and woe.
The Guru-God, is ever of avail to the soul,
whose shade the mortal ever needs both here and hereafter. Pause.
The Lord's meditation is the pure way of life.
In the saints society, one is rid of another's love.
Friends, well-wishers and riches are not the support of man.
Blessed, blessed is my Omnipresent Lord.
Nanak utters the ambrosial Gurbani.
Without One God, he knows not another.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Before me is God, behind me is God,
and in the middle part too, is the loved Lord, the Home of elixir.
The Lord is my Shastra and auspicious omen.
Abiding in the Lord's Home and Mansion the mortal is blessed with peace, poise and pleasure. Pause.
I live by uttering the Name with my tongue, and hearing it with mine ears.
Remembering and contemplating the Lord, I have become eternal and ever-stable.
I am rid of the woes of millions of births.
The celestial strain of the Lord's court now plays for me.
Showing His mercy, the Lord has blended me with Himself.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the Lord.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Through the Lord's meditation millions of the mind's desires are fulfilled.
On the Yama's path, God's Name is the mortal's comrade and helper.
The Great God's Names is like water of the Ganges.
Whosoever contemplates it, he is emancipated. Quaffing it, one wanders not in existences again. Pause.
This alone is my worship, meditation, penance and ablution.
Meditating on the Name, I have become desireless.
The gift of wealth, mansion, empire, court,
and perfect conduct is my meditation on Name.
After due deliberation, slave Nanak has come to this conclusion,
that without the Lord's Name all else is false and like ashes.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
The poison absolutely produced not even an iota of bad effect,
but the evil Brahman died of colic.
The Lord's slave, the Transcendent Lord, of Himself has saved.
The sinner died by the power of the Guru. Pause.
The slave Himself remembers his Lord.
The ignorant sinner, He, the Lord Himself, has destroyed.
The Lord is the Mother, Father and the Protector of His servant.
The countenance of the slanderer is blackened here and hereafter.
The Supreme Lord has heard the prayer of slave Nanak.
Becoming hopeless, the vile sinner did die away.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Excellent, excellent, excellent, excellent, excellent is Thy Name.
False, false, false, false is the worldly love. Pause.
Invaluable is the vision of Thine slaves, O Infinite Lord.
Without the Name, the whole world is but ashes.
Wondrous is thy Omnipotence and praise-worthy are Thine feet.
Priceless is Thy praise, O the True King.
The Lord's protection is the support of the supportless.
Day and night meditate thou on God, the Patroniser of the poor.
The Lord is Himself merciful unto Nanak.
May I not forget God, who is my mind, soul and very life.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
By the Guru's grace, obtain thou the True wealth.
Accepting as true the Lord's will, endure thou it willingly, O man.
Thus thou shall live eternally.
Rising early every day in-drink thou the Lord's elixir.
With thy tongue, utter thou thy God, God, God's Name. Pause.
In the Dark age, one is emancipated only through the Name.
Nanak utters the Name of the Creator-Lord.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Serving the True Guru, I have obtained all the fruits.
My filth of myriads of births is washed off.
The filth of myriads of births is washed off.
The Purifier of the sinners is Thy Name, O Lord. In accordance with the writ of my past deeds sing I the Lord's praises. Pause.
Associating with the saints one is emancipated,
and is blessed with honour in the Lord's court.
Serving the Lord's feet all the comforts are obtained.
All the angelic persons and gods long for the dust of the feet of such mortals.
Nanak is blessed with the Name Treasure.
Reflecting and pondering over the Lord, the entire world is saved.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
His slave, the Lord huge to His bosom.
The slanderer, He throws in the fire.
His serfs, the Lord saves from the sinners.
No one can save the sinner. By his own deeds, the sinner is destroyed. Pause.
The Lord's servant embraces affection for his Reverend Lord.
The slanderer loves not the Lord.
The supreme Lord has made manifest His innate nature.
The evil-doer obtains the fruit of his deeds.
The Lord comes and goes not, but is pervading every where.
Serf Nanak seeks only the Lord's refuge.
Rag Bhairo. 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The formless and Fascinating Lord of wealth is the Creator of all and the Giver of peace.
Forsaking such Lord, thou serve another. Why are thou serve another, Why are thou intoxicated with the relishes of sins?
O my soul, meditate thou on thy Lord.
I have seen all other efforts of whatsoever else think I, there with my affair is marred. Pause.
The blind and ignorant egocentrics leave their Lord and worship His hand maiden.
Being without the Guru and like unto beasts, they slander those, who worship their Lord.
The soul, life body and wealth all belong to the Lord, but the mammon-worshippers say that they are their own.
They are arrogantly minded, their understanding is evil and filthy, and without the Guru, they continue coming and going into this terrible world-ocean.
Through burnt offerings, gratuitous feasts, mechanical recitations, penances, all the self-mortification and abiding at the banks of rivers and holies, God is found not.
Seeking the greet Guru's refuge, man's self-conceit is effaced, O Nanak, and he crosses over the world-ocean.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
I have seen the Lord in the woods, seen in vegetation and seen Him too in home and abandonment.
I have seen Him amidst staff-bearers, matted hair-wearers, fasting-observers, vow-takers and the visitors of the holies.
I have seen Him in the saints society and within my mind.
In the sky, under-world and everything, I find the Lord fully pervading. With love and bliss I sing His praise. Pause.
I have seen the Lord midst the Yogis, various sects, solitarians, wandering saints, celibates and patched-coat wearers.
I have seen Him amongst penitents, austere men, silent sages, actors, dramas and dances.
I have seen Him in the four Vedas and seen Him in the six Shastras, ten and eight Puranas and twenty-seven Simritis as well.
They all collectively declare that the Lord is but one. Then from whom is He hidden, I should ask?
The Unseizable, Unfathomable and Infinite Lord is priceless. His worth can be appraised not.
Servant Nanak is a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto them, within whose mind the Lord has become manifest.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
He, who realises his Lord near; how can he do evil?
He, who amasses poison, ever feels fear.
The Lord is near and this mystery is known not.
Without the True Guru, the entire world is bewitched by mammon.
Near, very near, the Lord is. every one says.
Rare is the one, who finds this mystery, by the Guru's grace. Pause.
The Mortal sees not the nearness of the Lord goes to another's house.
He plunders others wealth and lives in falsehood.
He is caught in illusion and knows not the Lord with him.
Without the Guru, he is gone astray in doubt.
He realises not the Lord to be near and tells lies.
In the love of the worldly valuables, the fool is defrauded.
Within him is the commodity, but he goes abroad in search of it.
But without the Guru, he strays in doubt.
He, on whose face and forehead good destiny is recorded;
he serves the True Guru and his mind's shutters are opened.
Within, without and Just close at hand, he then beholds the Lord.
He, then comes and goes not any where, O slave Nanak.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Who can kill him, whom Thou save, O Lord?
Within Thee are contained all the beings and the entire world.
The mortal thinks of millions of plans,
but happens only that, what the Lord of wondrous plays does.
Save me, save me Thou, O Lord, by showering Thine benediction.
I have sought Thy protection in Thine court. Pause.
Whosoever serves the Fear-free and Peace-giving Lord;
he is rid of fear and knows the Lord alone.
Whatever Thou does, that alone happens in the end.
There is not another who can save and destroy.
What do you think the creature of man-like nature?
The Omniscient Lord is the searcher of hearts,
The Lord alone is my refuge and He alone my support.
The Creator-Lord knows all the things.
He, on whom the Creator casts His merciful glance,
all the affairs of that man, He Himself arranges.
He, the One Lord, is his Saviour.
None can reach up to him, O serf Nanak.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
If any thing be beyond God's power, we may sorrow then.
If we forget God, the Man-lion, we should sorrow then.
Then alone should we sorrow if we love another.
Why should we be in sorrow, when the Lord is pervading everywhere.
Due to greed, grieving in the love of wealth, the mortal is destroyed.
Wandering, wandering, wandering without the Name, he is wasted away. Pause.
Then alone should we grieve, if there be another Creator.
Then alone should we grieve, if some one be unjustly done to death.
Then alone should we grieve if the Lord be unaware of any thing.
Why should we tantalise, when the Lord is fully contained amongst all?
Then alone should we grieve, if the Lord were to tyrannize over us.
Then alone should we sorrow, If the Lord pains through mistake.
The Guru says, whatever comes, all that comes from the Lord.
Leaving aside tantalization then, I now go to sleep without fear.
O Lord, Thou alone are my Master. Every one belongs to Thee.
As per Thou will, so Thou settle with me.
There is not another, The one Lord is pervading all.
O Lord, save Thou Nanak's honour. He has entered Thine sanctuary.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
What is dancing without a band?
What is a musician without a melodious voice?
How can a rebeck be played without the strings?
Without the Name, in vain are all the affairs.
Say, who has been saved save the Lord's Name?
Without the True Guru, how can one be ferried across. Pause.
How can nay one utter without the tongue?
Without the ears, how can any one hear?
Without the eyes, how can any one see?
Without the Name, man is of no account.
Without learning how can any one be a scholar?
Without rule, what is the glory of the empire?
Without knowledge, how can the mind be steady?
Without the Lord's Name, the entire world is gone mad.
Without detachment, how can man be detached?
Without renouncing ego how can any one be a renouncer?
Without overcoming the five demons, how can the mind be subdued?
Without the Lord's Name, man repents for ever and eye.
Without the Guru's instruction, how can Divine knowledge be acquired?
Say, without seeing, how can one fix his attention?
Without the Lord's fear, all utterance is in vain.
Says Nanak, this alone is the doctrine of the Lord's court.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
The disease of pride has humbled the man.
The disease of lust overwhelms the elephants.
Through the disease of seeing, the moth is burnt to death.
Through the disease of bell's note, the deer is ruined.
All those, that are seen; they, they are disease-stricken.
It is only my True Guru, united with God, who is free from the disease. Pause.
Through the malady of tongue the fish is caught.
Through the malady of nose, the black-bee is destroyed.
The whole world is entangled in the malady of secular love.
The sins are multiplied in the malady of the three qualities.
In disease, man dies and in disease he is born.
Through disease, he wanders in existences again and again.
Entangled in disease, he is not permitted to stay any where even for a moment.
Without the True Guru, the disease is never eradicated.
He, to whom the Transcendent Lord shows mercy,
holding him by the arm, He pulls him out of the disease.
The fetters of him, who obtains the saints' A society, are snapped.
Says Nanak, the Guru rids him of the disease.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
When I remember my Lord, then I am in supreme bless.
When I remember my Lord, then all my pains are shattered.
When I remember my Lord, then my aspiration is fulfilled.
When I remember my Lord, then I sorrow not ever.
Within my mind, God the king, has become manifest.
The perfect Guru, has made me love my Lord. Pause.
If I cherish Thee, then I am the King of all.
If I cherish Thee, then all my tasks are accomplished.
If I cherish Thee, then assume I the deep red colour.
If I cherish Thee, then am I rendered happy for ever.
If Thou, O Lord, come into my mind then I am ever wealthy.
If Thou come into my mind, then I become ever doubt-free.
If Thou come into my mind, then I enjoy all the pleasure.
If Thou come into my mind, then I am rid of fear.
When I meditate on Thee, O Lord, then I am blessed with the home of peace.
When I meditate on Thee, I am absorbed in Thee, O Lord.
When I meditate on Thee, then ever, sing I Thy praise.
Nanak's mind is pleased with the Fortunate Lord.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Ever, ever, alive is my Father.
My brother have become eternal as well.
Ever imperishable are my friends.
My family abides within its own 'Home'.
I have obtained peace, every one is then rendered peaceful.
The Perfect Guru has united me with my Father. Pause.
The highest of all are my mansions.
My countries are unquestionably infinite.
Ever-stable is my Kingdom,
My wealth is inexhaustible and everlasting.
My glory rings through all the ages.
All the places and spaces are replete with my celebrity.
My praise resounds through all houses.
My love-worship is known amongst all the people.
My Father has become manifest within my mind.
The father and the son have met together in partnership.
Says Nanak, when the Father is pleased with me,
then the Father and the son are merged in the same love,
Bhairo 5th Guru.
O my uninimical, omnipotent, Divine and beneficent True Guru.
I am a sinner and Thou my pardoner,
The sinner, whom no one offers refuge;
If he seeks thy protection, then Immaculate becomes he.
Pleasing the True Guru, I have obtained peace.
Contemplating my Guru, I am blessed with all the fruits. Pause.
I make obeisance unto my True Guru, the Transcendent Lord.
My soul and body belong to Thee and the whole world is thine.
When the veil is removed, then alone do I see Thee.
O the King of all, Thou alone are my Lord.
When it pleases Him, the Lord, even thy wood becomes green.
When He wills, then the river flows on the sandy tract.
If He wills, then all the fruits are obtained.
Repairing to the Guru's feet, anxiety is removed.
Unto me, the meritless usurper, the Lord, has become merciful.
My soul and body have become cool and upon my mind rains the Nectar.
My Guru, the Supreme Lord, has become compassionate unto me.
Seeing the Lord, slave Nanak has become very happy.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
My True Guru, is not dependent on any one.
My Guru is truly embellished.
My True Guru is the giver of all.
The True Guru is my Creator Lord.
There is no deity equal to my Guru.
Whosoever has good destiny recorded on his brow; he alone applies himself to the Guru's service. Pause.
My True Guru sustains all.
My True Guru slays and revives the mortal.
The glory of my True Guru,
has become manifest in all the places.
My True Guru is the power of the powerless.
My True Guru is my home and my court.
I am ever a sacrifice unto my True Guru,
who has obviously shown me the path.
He, who serves the Guru; him fear overtakes not.
He, who serves his Guru; him pain afflicts not.
Nanak has scrutinized the Vedas and Simritis.
Between the Transcendent Lord and the Guru, There is no difference.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Remembering the Name, man is renowned.
Remembering the Name sin is banished from the body.
Remembering the Name one observes all the auspicious occasions.
Remembering the Name, the mortal bathes at the sixty eight pilgrimage stations.
My place of pilgrimage is the Lord's Name.
This real understanding the Guru has imparted unto me. Pause.
Taking the Name, my sorrows are removed away from me.
Taking the Name, the exceedingly ignorant become the great divines.
Taking the Name, Divine light is revealed unto the mortal.
Taking the Name, man's fetters burst.
Uttering the Name, death's courier comes not near man.
Uttering the Name, the mortal obtains peace in the Lord's court.
Uttering the Name, the Lord hails the man.
The Lord's Name is my true wealth.
The Guru has preached this sublime instruction unto me.
The Lord's praise and the Name are the support of man's mind.
Nanak is redeemed through the Name's act of atonement.
Other deeds the mortals do to please people.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Lakhs of times, make I obeisance unto Him.
My this soul, I make a sacrifice unto Him.
By His meditations suffering is effaced.
Bliss wells up and pain afflicts not.
Such is the jewel of the immaculate Name.
By uttering which all the tasks are accomplished. Pause.
Seeing whom the abode of suffering is demolished,
and the man's mind seizes upon the cool Nectar-Name.
He is such, whose feet the myriads of devotees worship.
He is the fulfiller of all the mind's desires.
In an instant, the Lord fills to the brim, the empty ones.
In an instant, the day, He makes green.
In an instant, the Lord gives place to the placeless.
In an instant, He gives honour to dishonored.
The one Lord is fully contained amongst all.
He alone contemplates Him perfect is whose Guru.
God's praise is the support of him,
on whom, the Lord Himself is merciful; says Nanak,
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Me, the discarded one, the Lord, Himself has embellished.
Blessing me with beauty, His love and His Name, the Lord has regenerated me.
My pain and sorrow have all ended.
The Guru has become my Mother and Father.
O my friends and mates, my household is in bliss now.
Showering His benediction, my Spouse has met me. Pause.
My fire is quenched and all my desires are fulfilled.
The darkness is dispelled and the Divine Light is illumined for me.
Wondrous is the spiritual bliss of the celestial strain.
Perfect is the grace of the Perfect Guru.
He, unto whom my Master becomes manifest;
by His sight one is ever in bliss.
He obtains all virtues and many treasures,
whom the True Guru blesses with the Lord's Name.
He, who is met with by his Lord;
his mind and body are cooled and he contemplates his Lord Master.
Says Nanak, the persons, who are pleasing to their Lord;
some rare one is blessed with the dust of their feet.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
The mortal tarries not in thinking of sin.
Cohabiting with a prostitute, he is not a bit ashamed.
He toils and labours the whole day long,
But when it is the time to remember God, then, a heavy stone falls on his head.
Attached to worldly valuables, the world is gone astray.
The strayer, of Himself, has strayed him, and he is engrossed in the worthless worldly affairs. Pause.
While man sees, the worldly revelments pass away,
He loves the shell and disfigures his life.
Bound to blind worldly pursuits His mind wanders.
The Creator-Lord enters not his mind.
Toiling and moiling this-wise, he suffers pain.
The worldly affairs are never completed.
In lust, wrath and avarice, man's mind is absorbed.
He dies wriggling like a fish out of water.
One who considers Lord as Protector,
remembers and contemplates the Lord master's Name.
One sings the Lords 'praise in the society of the saints,
whosoever meets with the Perfect True Guru; O Nanak.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
He alone, unto whom the Lord shows mercy,
obtained the Lord's Name and enshrines it within his mind.
He, who enshrines the True Name within,
his mind and heart his sins of many births are washed off.
The Lord's Name is the soul's mainstay.
By the Guru's grace, even utter thou the Name, O brother and it shall ferry thee across the world ocean. Pause.
They, in whose destiny this treasure of God's Name is writ,
those persons obtain honour in the Lord's court.
Singing the Lord's praise with peace, poise and pleasure,
even the shelterless obtain shelter, hereafter.
The hearty contemplation and meditation of the Lord,
alone is the sublime Reality of all the ages.
He alone attaches to the Lord's skirt, whom he Himself attaches.
Asleep for millions of births, he then wakes up.
The saints belong to Thee and Thou Thyself belong to Thine saints, O Lord.
Thou Thyself make them utter Thy praise.
All the sentient beings are under Thine sway, O Lord.
Nanak's Lord is ever with him.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
God's Name is the lnner-knower of my heart.
The Name of is avail unto me.
God's Name is permeating every hear of mine.
The Perfect True Guru has given it to me in charity.
I possess the treasure of the Name jewels.
Unfathomable, unweighable and supremely priceless is the Name treasure. Pause.
The Name is my Immovable Master.
The Name's glory looks beauteous in the whole world.
The Lord's Name is my perfect Banker.
I posses the Lord's Absolute Name.
The Lord's Name is my loved food.
The Name is the very object of my mind.
By the Guru-saints' grace, I forget not the Lord's Name.
Uttering the Name, the celestial strain resounds within me.
By the Lord's grace, I have obtained the Name's nine treasures.
By the Guru's grace, I am attuned to the Lord's Name.
They alone are wealthy and supreme,
within whom is enshrined the treasure of the Lord's Name.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Thou, O Lord, are my Father and Thou my Mother.
Thou are the Giver of peace to my soul and very life.
Thou are my Lord and I am Thy serf.
Without Thee, no one else is mine.
O Lord, show mercy and bless me with this boon,
that day and night I may hymn Thy praise. Pause.
I am Thy musical instrument and Thou are the Player.
I am Thy mumper, bless thou me with alms, O my Alms-Giver.
By Thy grace, enjoy I Thine love and relish, O Lord.
Amongst all the hearts Thou are contained.
By Thine grace the Name is meditated upon,
and in the society of saints Thy praise is hymned.
By Thy mercy, pain is eradicated.
By Thy mercy, the hear lotus blooms.
I am a sacrifice unto the Guru God.
Fruitful is whose vision and immaculate whose service.
O my Lord Master, show Thou mercy unto me,
that Nanak may ever continue singing Thine praises.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
He, whose court is the highest of all.
Ever, ever make I obeisance unto Him.
The highest of the high is whose abode.
Millions of sins are washed off by the Name of that Lord.
Seeking His refuge, one is ever in peace.
Him, the Lord, mercifully unites with Himself. Pause.
He, whose wondrous deeds can be discerned not.
He, whose support is in all the hearts.
He (Lord) becomes manifest in the society of saints,
and Him the saints contemplate night and day with love.
By giving, His treasures exhaust not.
In an instant, He establishes and disestablishes.
He, whose order no one can undo.
He, the True Lord, is over the head of all the Kings.
He, whose protection seek I; on Him alone is pinned my hope.
My pain and pleasure, I place before Him alone.
He, who covered up His slave's all shame.
His praise, Nanak sings ever.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
The wailer has made it her daily routine to weep and cry.
For the sake of household goods of daily use, she remember her dead relations.
If someone knowingly becomes detached,
he then is not subject to birth and death or sorrow.
All the strifes are but the extension of mammon.
Some rare one makes the Lord's Name the mainstay of his life. Pause.
The mammon of three qualities is infecting all.
Whosoever clings to it; him harass pain and sorrow.
There is no peace without the Name's meditation.
By the greatest good fortune, the mortal is blessed with the Name's wealth.
One who heartily loves the guiser,
regrets when the guise is put off,
Transient as the shade of the cloud is,
so is the world of attachment and sin.
If any one is blessed with the one commodity of the Name;
his tasks are, then accomplished.
He, who by the Guru's grace, obtains the Lord's Name;
his coming into the world is approved by the Lord, O Nanak.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Slandering the saints, man wanders in species.
Slandering the saints, one suffers pain.
The death's courier awards punishment to the slanderer.
The death's courier awards punishment to the slanderer.
They, who pick up quarrel with the saints,
Those slanderers gather no happiness in life. Pause.
Slandering the God's devotee, (destroys)or (bores) the body wall.
Slandering the saint, one suffers in hell.
The slanderer of the Lord's saint putrefies in the womb.
Through the saints' A calumniation, one loses one loses one's empire.
In no wise, the slanderer obtains salvation.
He eats only what he has sown.
He is worse than a thief, an illicit lover and a gambler.
The unbearable burden of slander, the slander places over his head.
Uninimical are the saints of the supreme Lord.
Whosoever worships their feet; her is emancipated.
The Primal Lord has strayed the slanderer.
Nanak, the Past deeds can be erased not.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
The Lord's Name is my Veda and the Divine Word.
Through the Name my tasks are accomplished.
The Lord's Name for me is the worship of gods.
The Name's meditation for me is the service of the Guru.
The perfect Guru has implanted the Lord's Name within me.
The task of the contemplation of the Lord's Name is the sublime of all. Pause.
God's Name alone is my bath and ablution.
God's Name alone is my perfect donation.
They who utter the Name; they are all purified.
They, who utter the Name, are my brothers and friends.
God's Name for me is the auspicious omen and good fortune.
God's Name for me is the sublime diet, which satiates me.
God's Name for is all the good deeds.
God's Name is my immaculate business.
Within whose mind the One Lord abides,
have the support of the Lord's Name.
O Nanak; One sings Lord's praise with his soul and body,
in the society of the saints, whom the Lord blesses with His Name.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Thou bless the poor with wealth, O Lord.
Through Thee manifold sins are washed off and the soul becomes immaculate.
Through Thee all the desires and tasks are accomplished.
O God, Thy saint, Thou bless with Thine Name.
Fruitful is the service of my Lord, the King.
The doer and the Cause is my Lord Master, From His door, no one returns empty-handed. Pause.
The Lord rids the diseased one of his disease.
Of the woe-begone man, the Lord eradicates the sorrow.
The placeless one, Thou seat on the place, O Lord.
Thy slave, O Lord, Thou yoke to Thine devotional service.
O Lord, Thou bestow honour on the dishonoured one.
Through Thee, the foolish and ignorant man becomes shrewd and very wise, O Lord.
All his dread and fears flees away,
when God abides within the mind of that slave.
The Transcendent Lord Master is the Treasure of bliss.
God's Nectar-Name is the real Divine knowledge.
Showing His mercy, when the Lord yokes man to the service of the saints,
he, O Nanak, then merges in the Lord through the society of saints.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Through the saints' A society, the Lord abides in the mortal's mind.
Through the congress of the saints, all the sins flee away.
In the society of the saints, one acquires the immaculate way of life.
Through the saints 'congregation, one comes to embrace love for One Lord.
That alone is called the saints guild,
where only the praises of the Transcendent Lord are sung. Pause.
By the society of saints, one is ride of birth and death.
Through the society of saints, the death's courier touches one not.
In the society of the saints, one's speech becomes immaculate.
In the society of saints, he utters the Lord's Name.
Ever stable is the abode of the saints guild.
The sins are destroyed in the saints' A congregation.
In the saints' A congregation, the pure discourse of God is narrated.
Through the saints' society, the ailment of ego flees away.
The society of the saints is destroyed not.
In the guild of the saints abides the treasure of God's virtues.
The saints 'congregation is the abiding-place of the Lord Master.
Nanak, the Lord is woven with His saints like warp and woof.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
What is disease, when the Lord, of Himself, Protects?
The man, whom the Lord saves, suffers not pain and sorrow.
One, on whom is the Lord's grace
the Lord averts death's messenger from him.
The Lord God's Name is ever the mortal's Helper.
Whosoever contemplates the Name; he attains lasting peace and death's courier comes not near him. Pause.
When this mortal was not in existence, who did create him then?
From what a seed, what the Lord has made manifest?
Of Himself the Lord slays and Himself He revives.
His devotee, the Lord ever cherishes.
Know that everything is in His hand.
My Lord is the patron of the patronless.
The Destroyer of pain is His Name.
Singing His praises, thou shall obtain peace, O man.
O Lord, hear Thou the prayer of Thy saint.
My soul, very life and wealth, I surrender unto Thee, O Lord.
This entire universe is Thine and it meditates on Thee, O my Master.
Show Thou mercy unto Nanak, O Lord, that he may be blessed with peace.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
By Thine support, live I in this Darkage, O my Lord.
Through Thy prop, sing I Thine praises.
In Thine sanctuary, death can harass me not.
Through Thy protection, the involvement are past.
In this world and the next one, I have thine support.
Amongst all is contained the one Lord. Pause
Leaning on Thee, I obtain spiritual-bliss.
Leaning on Thee, utter I the Guru's word.
Leaning on Thee, the terrible world-ocean is crossed.
Perfect God, the ocean of bliss, is my saviour.
Leaning on Thee, I am rid of all fears.
He, the True Lord, is the searcher of hearts.
Within my mind is Thine prop and power.
Here and there Thou alone are my court of appeal.
Thou, O Lord are my support and Thou my faith.
All meditate on Lord, the Treasure of virtue.
Pondering and reflecting over Thee, Thine slave, O Lord make merry.
Nanak meditates on the True Lord, the Treasure of excellences.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Firstly, I have given up the calumniation of others,
and all the anxiety of my mind is dispelled.
Avarice and attachment, I have all banished.
Seeing the Lord near, I have become a great saint.
Rare is such a man of renunciation.
That person utters the Lord God's Name. Pause.
I have renounced the association of haughty intellect.
I am rid of the love of lust and wrath.
I dwell upon the Name of the Lord Master, my God,
and am emancipated in the guild of the holymen.
The foe and friend are now alike unto me.
The Fortunate Lord is fully contained amidst all.
Submitting to the Lord's Will, I obtained peace,
and the Perfect Guru has enshrined the Lord's Name within me.
He, whom the Lord Himself saves, in his mercy,
he the devotee, utters and repeats the Lord's Name.
One whose mind is illumined on obtaining understanding through the Guru,
is fully fulfilled, says Nanak.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
There is no peace in earning much wealth.
There is no peace in beholding dance and drama.
There is no bliss in conquering many countries.
All the pleasures are obtained by hymning the Lord's praises.
O man, obtain peace, poise and bliss;
through good fortune and by the Guru's grace, utter thou the Lord God's Name by associating with the society of saints. Pause.
The mother, father, son and wife are but bonds.
The religious deeds, which man does in ego are but fetters.
If the snapper of bonds bides in the mind,
then one obtains bliss and abides in his own Home.
Everyone is a beggar The Lord alone is the Giver.
The Infinite and Boundless Lord is the Treasure of virtues.
he, unto whom the Lord shows His merry.
That person alone utters the Lord Master's Name.
Before my Guru-God, the treasure of virtues,
I make supplication to be merciful unto me.
Says Nanak, I have entered Thy sanctuary,
O Lord of the world. As it pleases Thee, so save Thou me.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Meeting with the Guru, I have abandoned another's love.
By the Guru's grace, I meditate on the name of my God.
My anxiety is past and I am in love with the Name.
Asleep for many births, I have now awakened.
Showering His benediction the Lord has yoked me to his service.
In the society of the saints, I have obtained all comforts. Pause.
The diseases and sins, I have warded off, through the Guru's word.
The Name's medicine I have injected into my mind.
Meeting with the Guru, my mind is in bliss.
All the treasures are in the Lord's name.
Dispelled is my dread of birth, death and Yama.
Associating with the saints my inverted lotus of heart has blossomed,
Singing God's praise I am blessed with the ever stable peace.
All my tasks are accomplished.
My invaluable body has been accepted by my Lord.
Contemplating the Lord God's Name, it has become fruitful.
Says Nanak, my Lord has shown mercy unto me,
and with every breath and morsel of mine, I now ponder over my Lord Master.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
He, whose Name is the highest of all;
ever, ever sing thou the praises of Him.
Contemplating whom all the pains are eradicated,
and all the comforts come and abode within the mind.
O my soul, remember thou that True Lord of thine.
In this world and the next one, thou shall be emancipated. Pause.
The immaculate Lord is the Creator of all.
He gives sustenance to all the sentient beings.
Millions of sins, He forgives in an instant.
Through love-worship one is ever emancipated.
True wealth, true glory,
and immovable intellect are obtained through the Perfect Guru.
He whom the Saviour saves, in His mercy;
his entire spiritual darkness, is dispelled.
With the Transcendent Lord my attention is fixed.
The immaculate Lord is fully filling all.
Effacing doubt and dread I have met with the Lord.
Unto Nanak, the Guru has become merciful.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Contemplating whom, man's mind is illumined,,
he is rid of suffering and abides in peace and poise.
He alone obtains the Name, whom the Lord gives.
He is also blessed with the Perfect Guru's service.
All the comforts are in Thy Name, o Lord.
Through the eight watches, O my soul, hymn thou the Name's praise. Pause.
Man obtains the fruit which he wishes for,
Enshrining the Lord's Name within his min.
Remembering God, man's comings and going cease.
Through Love-worship, one is attuned to the Lord.
His lust, wrath and ego are dispelled,
snapped are his bonds of mammon's love and affection,
and he leans on the Lord day and night.
He, whom the Supreme Lord blesses with the gift of His grace.
The Lord is the Doer and the cause.
He is the Searcher of all hearts.
O Lord, be Thou merciful and yoke me to Thine service.
Slave Nanak has entered Thy sanctuary.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
He, who contemplates not the Name dies of shame.
without the Name, how can he sleep in peace?
Abandoning the Lord's meditation, the mortal desires supreme salvation,
but without the roots, how can there be branches?
O my soul, meditate thou on thy Guru-God.
He shall wash off the filth of thine, many births and loosing thy bonds, shall unite thee with thy God. Pause.
How can a stone be purified by washing it at a place of pilgrimage?
To his mind clings the filth of ego.
Myriads of rituals are the root of involvements.
Without the Lord's mediation, one only gathers the worthless bundle of straw.
Without eating, hunger is satisfied not.
When the disease is past, It is then that the pain goes.
The mortal is engrossed in sexual appetite, wrath, avarice and worldly love.
He dwells not on the Lord who created him.
Blest, blest is the saint, and blest the Lord's Name.
Throughout the eight watches, sing thou the Lord's glories and praises.
Praiseworthy is the devotee of God and praiseworthy his creator Lord.
Nanak, seeks the protection of the infinite Lord Master.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
When the Guru is highly pleased with me, I am rid of my fears.
The Name of the Immaculate Lord, I have enshrined within my mind.
God, merciful to the meet, is ever compassionate.
All my entanglements are over.
I have obtained peace, poise and manifold pleasures.
In the society of saints, I am rid of doubt and dread and with my tongue utter the Lord Master's Nectar-Name. Pause.
With the Lord's lotus feet, I have imbibed affection.
In an instant, the great demon has been done away with,
Throughout the eight watches, utter I the Name of my Lord God.
The Guru-God, Himself is my Saviour.
His slave, the Lord ever sustains.
The Lord keeps in His eye every breath of the saintly persons.
Say, what is the personality of man?
Lending His Hand, the Lord saves His saints, even from the myrmidons of death.
Immaculate is the glory and immaculate the way of him,
who within his mind remembers the Transcendent Lord.
The Guru has mercifully blessed Nanak with the gift,
and he has obtained the treasure of the Lord's Name.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
My Guru is Omnipotent to do all deeds,
The ever-near Lord is the Giver of soul, the very life and peace.
He is my ever-stable kind, the destroyer of dread.
Seeing his vision, all the sorrows are dispelled.
O my Master, wherever I am, I look up to Thy protection,
A sacrifice, a sacrifice am I unto the True Guru's feet. Pause.
Meeting with the Divine Guru, my tasks are accomplished.
He is the giver of all the boons and his service makes man immaculate.
Holding by the hand, he saves his slaves.
And enshrine the Lord's Name in their mind.
His slaves, then ever remain in bliss and meet with no sorrow.
No distress, pain and disease befalls them.
O Lord, everything is Thine, Thou are the creator of all.
Great, Unfathomable and Infinite is the Supreme Lord.
Immaculate is the Lord's magnificence and wondrous His Gurbani,
The Perfect Transcendent Lord is pleasing to my mind.
He, the Lord is pervading the ocean, land and the sky.
Nanak, everything wells up from the Lord.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
My mind and body are imbued with the love of the Lord's feet.
All the aspirations of my heart are fulfilled.
Through the eight watches I hymn the praise of the illustrious Lord.
The True Guru has imparted unto me the perfect instruction.
Very fortunate is he, who loves the Lord's Name.
Associating with Him, the world is ferried across. Pause.
He alone is the divine, who remembers the one Lord.
He alone is wealthy, who possesses discerning intellect.
He alone is a man of high family, who dwells upon the Lord.
He alone is a man of honour, who understands his ownself.
By the Guru's grace I have obtained the supreme status,
and now, day and night I sing the Lord's praise.
My shackles are shattered and my hopes are fulfilled,
and God (God's feet) takes abode within my mind.
Says Nanak, he whose destiny is perfect;
that man comes to the Lord's refuge.
He himself is pure and purifies all others.
With his tongue he utters the Name of God, the Home of elixir.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Uttering the Lord's Name, no obstacle befalls the mortal.
Hearing the Name, death's courier runs away, from afar.
Uttering the Name all the sufferings depart.
Uttering the Name, one abodes in the Lord's feet.
The utterance of the Lord God's Name is an unblemished service of Him.
Hymn, thou, O man God's praise with love and affection. Pause.
Contemplating God, an evil-eye shall affect thee not.
Contemplating God, demon and ghost shall touch thee not.
Contemplating God, worldly love and self-conceit bind not one.
Contemplating God, one is entangled not in the womb existences.
Every time is good for God's meditation.
Amongst many, some rare one meditates on the Lord.
Any one who remember God, be of good caste or not,
whosoever remembers Him, is emancipated.
Associating with the saints, dwell thou upon the Lord's Name.
Perfect is the bliss of God's Name.
My Lord God, show Thou mercy unto Nanak,
that he may contemplate Thee with his very breath.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
God Himself is the six Shastras and Himself the four Vedas.
He, of Himself knows the secret of all the hearts.
He is the embodiment of light, to whom belong all the things.
The perfect and all-powerful Lord is the Doer of all the deeds.
O my soul, grasp thou thy Lord's protection.
By the Guru's grace, ponder thou over the Lord's lotus feet and enemy and anguish shall come not near thee. Pause.
The Lord, of Himself is the essence of the woods, vegetation and the three worlds.
He is such whose, thread, the world is strung.
He Himself is the Uniter of mind and matter.
He Himself is Recluse and Himself the Enjoyer.
wheresoever I see, there and there He is.
Without Him there is not any other.
Loving the Name, the world ocean is crossed.
in the society of the saints, Nanak hymns the Lord's praise.
In whose power are salvation, worldly success and union,
O man, nothing is wanting in the Home of Him.
He, on whom the Lord, by His mercy, is pleased;
blessed are those persons, O slave Nanak.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Within the mind of the Lord's saints, there is bliss.
Moveless become they, and ended is all their anxiety.
In an instant their dread and doubt are dispelled.
The transcendent Lord comes to abide in their mind.
The Lord Master is ever the succourer of His saints.
Within and without the house, the Lord is ever with us. He is fully pervading all places. Pause.
He ever soothes and sustains my soul and very life.
God, the cherisher of the universe, is my wealth, property, youth and way.
Lending His hand, the Lord saves His serf.
Ever for an instant he leaves Him not and ever accompanies him.
Like God, there is no other friend.
He, the True Lord, takes care of all.
The Lord is the Mother, Father, Son and Kinsman of all.
Since the beginning and the commencement of ages, the saints sing His praises.
Within my mind is the prop and power of that Lord.
Without the One Lord, there is not another second.
Within the mind of Nanak is this support,
that my Lord shall accomplish my tasks.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Contemplating the Lord's Name, man's fear becomes afraid of him.
All the diseases of the three qualities are cured and the Lord's slaves tasks are accomplished. Pause.
God's men ever hymn God's praise and they attain unto His perfect mansion.
Even the Righteous Judge and the Yama, to be sanctified, day and night long for the vision of the Lord's slave.
In the saints society, lust, wrath, avarice, ego, slander and self-conceit are effaced.
Through the greatest good fortune, such saints are met. Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto them.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
He, who harbours the five demons, himself becomes the embodiment of these five.
Arising daily, he utters falsehood with his tongue.
Making religious marks on his body, he practises hypocrisy.
Repining and repenting, he putrefies like a widowed woman.
All is false without the Lord's Name.
Save the Perfect Guru, salvation is obtained not and in the True court, the mammon-worshipper is plundered. Pause.
He alone is filthy, who realises no the Lord's Omnipotence.
The plastered place, the Lord deems not pure.
If man is filthy from within, and daily washes himself from without;
in the True Court, he loses his honour.
He makes effort for the sake of riches,
and places not his foot on the right path ever.
He, who created Him; Him he remembers not.
With his mouth, he utters falsehood.
He, to whom the Creator-Lord shows mercy;
He deals with the society of saints.
He who loves the Lord's Name and service;
says Nanak, no obstacle befalls that man.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
The world curses the slanderer.
False are the dealings of the calumniator.
Filthy is the way of life of the calumniator.
The Lord is the saviour of His slave.
The slander dies with the slanderer.
The Supreme Lord Master saves His slave, and over the head of the calumniator roars death. Pause.
No one believes in what a reviler says.
Uttering falsehood the reviler regrets.
He writhes his hands and dashes his head against the ground.
The Lord forgives not the reviler.
God's slave wishes ill to no one.
The reproacher endures the pain of the wound of a bayonet.
Like the crane's spreading of its feathers, he popes as a swan.
When he utters a word with His mouth, then is he exposed and driven out.
He, the Creator-Lord is the inner-knower.
He, whom the Lord makes His servant; becomes eternally stable.
God's servant is proclaimed true in the Lord's court.
Says slave Nanak, this is the quintessence of the Lord's meditation.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
Joining both my hands I make supplication before the Lord.
My soul, body and wealth are His capital.
He alone is my Creator-Lord.
Myriads of times, I am a sacrifice unto Him.
The dust of the saints 'feet purifies one.
Meditating on the Lord, the mind's sins are effaced and the filth of many births is washed off. Pause.
Such is the Lord in whose house are all treasures,
and through whose service, one is blessed with honour.
He is the Fulfiller of all the desires,
and is the support of the soul and life-breath of His devotees.
Within the hearts of all men, is Thy light.
The devotees live by remembering, remembering God, the Treasure of virtues.
The service of whom goes not in vain,
in thy mind and body contemplate thou that one Lord.
By the Guru's instruction, the mortal, gathers compassion and contentment.
This Name treasure is an immaculate thing.
Showing Thy mercy, O Lord, attach Thou me to Thine skirt.
Nanak, ever meditates over Thine lotus feet.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
My Lord Guru, has heard my prayer,
and all my tasks are adjusted.
Within my mind and body, I think of my Lord.
The Perfect Guru, has dispelled all my fears.
My powerful Guru-God is the greatest of all.
Through his service, gather I all the comforts. Pause.
He, by whose doing every thing is done;
His order, no one can undo.
Of peerless beauty is my Supreme Lord Master.
The accredited personality of the Guru, is the embodiment of that Lord.
He, within whom abides the Lord's Name.
Wherever he sees, there he sees the Lord's wisdom,
He, whose mind is wholly illumined.
Within that man abides the Transcendent Lord.
Unto that Guru, I ever make obeisance.
Unto that Guru, I am ever a sacrifice.
I wash the feet of the True Guru and in-drink that wash.
I live by ever remembering and contemplating Guru Nanak.
Rag Bhairo 5th Guru Partal
There is but one God By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
God, the Cherisher, is compassionate Who can count His virtues?
He has many colours and manifold joy-waves. He is the Master of all. Pause.
He has varied deliberation, varied thought and varied worship, recitation and penance.
Various are His virtues, notes and sports and various silent sages enshrine Him in their mind.
He enjoys many melodies, many musical instruments, and many relishes every moment, Manifold sins and ailments are removed by hearing His praise.
O Nanak, serving the Infinite Lord, all the fruits and merits of river-banks, six rituals, fastings, worships and going to and wandering at holies are obtained.
Bhairo Ashtapadis 1st Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The Lord abides in the soul and the soul in the Lord. Through the Guru's wisdom, I have realised this.
By the Guru's instruction, ambrosial Gurbani is realised and one's sorrow is ended and ego eliminated.
Nanak, malignant is the disease of ego.
Wherever I see, there I see, the pain of the same disease. The Primal Lord, of Himself, blesses man with the Guru's word. Pause.
When the Assayer of Himself, tests and approves man, then he is not tested again.
They, on whom is God's grace, meet with the Guru. They alone are true, who are pleasing to the Lord.
Diseased are air water and fire and diseased is the world with its revelments.
The mother, father, mammon and body; they are diseased. Those united with kith and kin are diseased as well.
Afflicted are Brahma, Vishnu along with Shiva and afflicted is the whole world.
They who realise the Lord's feet and reflect on the Guru's word; they are emancipated.
Diseased are the seven oceans together with rivers. The continents and under-worlds are brimful with disease as well.
God's men, they abide in truth and peace, At all the places, He is merciful unto them.
Diseased are the six Shastras, several sectarians and many a men of perseverance.
What can the poor Vedas and religious books do, when men understand not the One Lord?
By taking sweet dainties, the mortal is filled with disease and there is no peace by living on fruits and roots.
Forgetting the Name, they who walk in other ways, grieve at the last moment.
By roaming at the pilgrim stations, man is not rid of his disease. Through reading, he is involved in useless controversies.
Exceedingly great is the ailment of duality. Through it one becomes a slave of mammon.
By the Guru's grace, he who praises the True Name and within whose mind is the True Lord; his disease is eradicated.
Nanak, the Lord's slave, who bears the seal of the Guru-God's grace, is ever Immaculate.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
He, the Creator-Lord has set afoot a wondrous day.
I hear the Lord's celestial Guru's word.
The self-willed go astray and unto the Guru's wards, truth is revealed.
The creator-Lord has been exhibiting the wondrous deeds.
The Guru's word; contemplate I within my mind.
God's Name, I shall forsake not ever. Pause.
Prahald's father, sent him to school to read.
Taking his tablet, he came to the teacher.
Says Prahlad "Without the Lord's Name, I shall read not any other thing.
On my tablet write thou the Name of the Lord Master".
Prahlad's mother, said to her son:
I counsel thee not to read alien custom.
Said Prahlad, "The sire, Fearless, Beneficient God is with me.
If I leave the Lord, then my lineage shall be maligned".

He listens not to my word and regulates his own affairs.
Prahlad implanted the Lord's love-worship in the whole city.
The court of the villains became helpless before him".
Sanda Marka lodged above complaint.
All the demons kept on trying in vain.
He, the Lord, protected the honour of Prahlad, the saintly person.
What can be done at the bidding of the created one?
By virtue of the writ of past actions, the demon swayed over an empire.
The demon realised not the Lord. He, the Lord had Himself strayed him.
He picked up a quarrel with Prahlad has son.
The blind one knew not that his death had drawn near.
Prahlad was confined in a cell and its door was locked.
The fearless child was not at all frightened and said, "within my mind bides the Guru-God".
If the created one tries to equal to Creator, in vain is his assumed big Name.
What was pre-destined for him that did arrive, and he picked up quarrel with the Lord's slave.
Parlad's father raised his voice and said,
Where is your God, the Lord of universe? and raised bludgeon to strike Prahlad,
Replied Prahlad, "My beneficent Lord is the Life of the world and Saviour in the end,
wheresoever I behold, I see Him pervading there".
Tearing asunder the pillar, God did make Himself manifest.
The proud demon was killed and destroyed.
In the mind of the saints was bliss and congratulations poured in.
God blessed His slave with glory.
The Lord has created birth, death and worldly attachment,
and coming and going the Creator-Lord has ordained.
For the sake of the task of Prahlad, the Lord made Himself manifest.
The word of the Lord's saint was fulfilled.
All the gods made obeisance unto the goddess of wealth saying,

Lakhsmi was terrified and could not go near.
Saint Prahlad came and fell at the Lord's feet.
The true Guru has enshrined the Name treasure, within me.
Sovereignty, property and all riches are false.
The greedy person remain clinging to them.
Bereft of the Lord's Name, one is punished in the Lord's court.
Says Nanak, every one does what the Lord makes him do.
They alone are approved, who fix their mind with their God
He has been taking the side of His devotees.
The Creator-Lord made manifest His form.
Bhairo 3rd Guru.
By The Guru's service I am blessed with the ambrosial fruit and my ego and desire are dispelled.
God's name is enshrine within my mind and heart and my craving is stilled in my very mind.
O my Reverend Loved Lord, show Thou mercy unto me.
Night and day, Thine meek serf ask for Thy praise, O Lord. It is through the Guru's word that the mortal is emancipated. Pause.
The Death's courier can tough not the holymen, and causes them not even an iota of suffering and pain.
O Lord, they who repair to Thy refuge: they save themselves and save their entire lineage.
Thou Thyself save the honour of Thine saints, This is Thy glory, O Lord.
Thou rid them of the sins and diseases of many births and they have not even an iota and trice of duality.
I am foolish and ignorant and understand not anything. thou Thyself bless me with wisdom.
Whatever pleases Thee, that Thou does, O Lord, Nothing else can be done.
Creating the world, Thou, O Lord, has yoked it to its task, and man do evil deeds.
They lose their priceless life in gamble and understand not the Lord's Name.
The way-ward know naught and die enveloped by the darkness of evil intellect and ignorance.
They never cross the dreadful world-ocean and are drowned to death, headlong without the Guru.
True are the persons, who are imbued with the True Name. Them the Lord God unites with Himself.
By the Guru's instruction they realise the Guru's word and remain attuned to the True Lord
O Lord, Thou Thyself are pure and pure are Thine slaves, who ponder over the Guru's word.
Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto them, who enshrine the Lord's Name within their mind.
Bhairo 5th Guru Ashtpadis
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
He alone is the great king, within whose mind the Lord's Name abides.
He, in whose mind the Name is; his tasks are accomplished.
He, within whose mind the Name is enshrined; he obtains riches of millions of kinds.
Without the Name, the life goes in vain.
I praise him, who possesses the capital of the Lord's wealth.
He alone is very fortunate, on whose forehead is the Guru's hand. Pause
He in whose mind the Lord's Name bides; owns many millions of armies.
He, within whose mind the Lord's Name is; he enjoys poise and peace.
He within whose mind the Name is enshrined; he is rendered calm and cool.
Without the Name, accursed are both life and death of the mortal.
He, in whose mind the Name is; he is emancipated in life.
He in whose mind the Name is enshrined; he knows all the ways.
He, within whose mind the Name dwells; he obtains the nine treasures.
Without the Name, one wanders in coming and going.
Care-free is he, within whose mind the Name is.
He, within whose mind the Lord's Name abides, ever reaps profit.
A large family has he within whose mind the Lord's Name is enshrined.
Without the Name, one is an unwise apostate.
Immovable is the seat of him, in whose mind the Name abides.
He alone is seated on the throne, within whose heart the Lord's Name is enshrined.
He alone is the true king, within whose heart the Name is.
Bereft of the Lord's Name, one has no honour and trust.
He in whose mind the Name abides; he is renowned all over.
He, in whose heart abides the Name; he is the embodiment of the creator Lord.
He, within whose heart the Name abides; he is the highest of all.
Without the Name, one wanders in many existences.
He, within whose mind abides the Name; he sees the Lord manifested in His creation.
He, within whose heart abides the Lord's Name; his darkness is dispelled.
Approved is the person, within whose heart abodes the Lord's Name.
Without the Name, one continues coming going again and again.
He alone is blessed with the Name, on whom the Lord becomes merciful.
Through the society of saints, Lord, the Cherisher of the world is comprehended.
My comings and goings have ceased, and I have obtained peace.
Says Nanak, my quintessence has merged in the Lord's quintessence.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
He created millions of incarnations of Vishnu.
He who has millions of solar systems as places to practise virtue.
He created and destroyed millions of Shivas.
He has employed myriads of Brahmas to create the universes.
Such is my Master Lord, O man.
He has good many virtues. I can narrate them not. Pause.
Such is the Lord, millions of Lakhshmis are his maids,
and myriads of beings are whose couches.
Millions of universes are in Thy Being, O Lord.
Myriads of devotees abide with the Lord.
Millions of Lords of throne and crown make obeisance unto Him.
Million of Indras stand at His door.
Such is He, whose vision are millions of paradises.
Myriads are the Lord's Names, whose worth can be appraised not.
Such is He, at whose door millions of conches are sounded.
Millions are His arenas and wondrous plays.
He has myriads of obedient Laksmis and Shivas.
To millions of beings, the Lord gives sustenance.
Millions of pilgrim stations are in whose feet.
Millions utter the immaculate and beauteous Name of the Lord.
Millions of worshippers worship the Lord.
Million are His expanses. There is not any other save Him.
Whose pure praise is sung by millions of swan-souls.
Myriads of whose praises are hymned by the sons of Brahma.
Myriads of destructions and creations, the Lord affects in an instant.
Millions are Thine virtues, which can be counted not, O Lord.
Millions of theologians expound gnosis.
Millions of contemplators contemplate Him.
Millions of penitents just practise penitence.
Millions of silent sages abides in silence.
The Imperishable and Incomprehensible Lord Master,
the Inner-knower, is fully filling all the hearts.
Wheresoever I see, I see Thy abode, O Lord.
Nanak, the slave, the Guru has illumined.
Bhairo 5th Guru.
The True Guru, has blessed me with the boon.
He has blest me with the invaluable jewel of the God's Name.
I, now, easily enjoy infinite revelments and wondrous plays.
The Lord has spontaneously met with Nanak.
Says Nanak, True is the praise of the Lord.
Again and again my mind remain attached with that. Pause.
Effortlessly feed I on the Lord's love.
Effortlessly take I the Lord's Name.
Spontaneously does the Name emancipate me.
Spontaneously my treasures remain brimful with the Name.
Mine tasks are spontaneously accomplished.
Spontaneously am I rid of my sorrows.
Spontaneously my enemies have turned friends.
Automatically have I conquered this mind of mine.
The Lord has spontaneously consoled me.
My hope has automatically been fulfilled.
Automatically have I understood all the quintessence.
The Guru has spontaneously blessed me with the Lord's Name.
Effortlessly am I rid of the animosities.
Effortlessly has my darkness been dispelled.
Spontaneously the Lord's praise sweet unto my mind.
Automatically see I the Lord amidst all the hearts.
Automatically has all my doubts been dispelled.
My mind, now, effortlessly abides in peace and pleasure.
Spontaneously the unstruck melody resounds within me.
The Lord of the world, has spontaneously become manifest unto me.
Spontaneously has my mind been pleased with the Lord.
The Moveless Lord have I effortlessly realised.
Spontaneously has all wisdom welled up in me.
Spontaneously has the Lord Master's support come to my hand.
The care-free Lord has preordained my destiny.
The One Lord Master, has spontaneously met me.
Automatically am I rid off all care.
Nanak Nanak, Nanak has become the Lord's embodiment.
Bhairo, Hymns of the saints. Kabir Ji.
There is but One God, by the True Guru's grace. He is obtained.
The Name of God; this alone is my wealth.
I tie it not in a knot, nor do I sell it for my livelihood. Pause.
The Name is my crop and the Name my orchard.
I, Thine slave, O Lord, perform Thy service and seek Thy protection.
Thy Name is my riches and Thy Name my capital.
I abandon Thee not, nor know I another.
Thy Name is my kindred and Thy Name my brother,
Thy Name is my associate, that will succour me in the end.
He whom the Lord keeps detached in the midst of worldly valuables;
of him I am a slave, says Kabir.
Naked man comes and naked goes he.
Of the kings and rulers, no one shall remain.
The sovereign Lord is my nine treasures.
Thou has the love of property, woman and wealth. Pause.
They come not with the mortal, nor do they go with him.
what avails the mortal, if he has the elephants tied at his gate?
The fortress of Ceylon was made gold,
but did unwise Rawan take with him?
Says Kabir, think thou of some good deeds, O man.
Ultimately, the gambler shall depart with both hands empty.
Impure is Brahma and impure is Indra.
The sun is impure and impure is the moon.
This world is defiled with impurity.
Immaculate is the One Lord, who has no end and limit. Pause.
Impure are the kings of the world.
Impure are nights, days and the thirty days of month.
Impure is the pearl and impure the diamond.
Impure are wind, fire and water.
Impure are Shiva, Shankara and Mahesha.
Impure are the men of miracles, the strivers and the religious garb wearers.
Impure are the Yogis, the wandering hermits with their matted hair.
Impure is the body along with the soul.
Says Kabir, approved are the persons,
and pure are they, who know their Lord.
Make thy mind thy Mecca and make thy body thy temple of worship.
This soul, the speaker, is the supreme Guru.
O Maulvi, then utter thou the call to prayer.
The one body mosque has ten doors. Pause.
Slay thou thy wrath, doubt and malice,
and consume thine five demons, thus thou shall be blest with contentment.
The Hindus and the Muslims have the same one Lord.
For man, what can the Maulvi do and what can the Sheikh do?
Says Kabir, I have become mad.
Slaying, slaying my mind, I have merged in the Lord.
When the stream blends with the Ganges,
then that stream is adjudged as the Ganges.
Similarly Kabir is blended with the Lord, by uttering His Name.
He has become the embodiment of the true Lord and now goes not any where else. Pause.
Associating with sandal, the tree is spoiled,
and that tree becomes like sandal itself.
When the copper is spooled in the society of the philosopher's stone,
that copper is transmuted into gold.
In the society of saints, Kabir is spoiled,
that Kabir himself is tuned into God.
People put on sacrificial mark on their forehead, carry rosary in their hand and wear sectarial dresses.
Men deem the Lord as a play thing.
If I am mad, even then I am Thine, O Lord.
How can people know my secret? Pause.
I tear not leaves and worship not gods.
Without the Lord's devotion, fruitless is other service.
I worship my True Guru, and ever, ever propitiate him, By such service,
I shall obtain peace in the Lord's court.
People say, Kabir has gone mad.
The secret of Kabir, the Lord alone knows.
Turning away from the world, I have forgotten both my caste and lineage.
My weaving is now in the divine stillness.
I have no quarrel with any one now.
I have abandoned both the Brahmans and the Maulvis. Pause.
Weaving, weaving the clothes myself, I myself wear them,
Where ego is not, there sing I the Lord's praise.
Whatever the Pandits and the Mullas have written,
that I have rejected and have accepted but nothing.
There is purity within my mind, so I have seen the4 sovereign Lord.
Searching, searching ownself, Kabir has met with his Lord.
No one shows reverence to the poor man.
Though the poor man may make lakhs of efforts, but he, the rich man minds him not. Pause.
When a poor man goes to the rich man,
the wealthy man, though sitting before him turns his back upon him.
When a rich man goes to the poor man,
the latter respects and welcomes the rich-man.
The poor and the rich both are brothers.
The Lord's design cannot be set aside.
Says Kabir, he alone is poor,
within whose mind, the Name abides not.
Through the Guru's service, the Lord's loving adoration is practised.
Then alone is obtained the fruit of this human body.
Even the gods long for this body.
So through that body of thine, think thou of rendering service unto thy God.
Meditate thou on the Lord of universe and forget him not.
This alone is the advantage of human life. Pause.
So long as the disease of old age has not come,
so long as death has not seized thy body,
and so long as thy speech has grown not powerless,
O man, contemplate thou on the world-Lord.
If thou remember not God, now, when shall thou remember Him, O brother?
When the end comes, He can be remembered not.
Whatever thou has to do, now is the time for that.
Otherwise thou shall not be ferried across, and shall repent afterwards.
He alone is the servant, whom the Lord yokes to His service.
He alone attains unto the immaculate Lord.
Meeting with the Guru, the doors of his understanding are opened,
and he, again treads not the way of existences.
This is thine opportunity and this thy time.
Look thou into thy mind and reflect on this.
Says Kabir, it is up to thee, O man, to win or to lose.
I have, in many ways, proclaimed aloud and aloud this truth unto thee.
In the city of God, abides the sublime understanding.
There meet thou with thy Lord, and meditate upon Him.
Thus shall thou understand this world, and the next one.
To die of crying, "mine, it is mine"; of what avail is this deed?
My attention is fixed on my own spiritual state.
The Name of the Sovereign Lord is my Divine knowledge. Pause.
With a tether, I have tethered my soul at the Door of the Primal Lord.
Above the sun, I have firmly placed the moon.
At the western gate, the sun blazons.
Death's great club hangs over one's head.
Towards the side of the western gate is a stone.
Over that stone, there is an another window.
Over the window is the "Tenth gate".
Says Kabir, of that abode there is no end and limit.
He alone is a Maulana, who struggles with his mind,
and by the Guru's instruction contends with death.
He, who crushes the pride of the Death's courier,
Unto that Maulvai, I ever make a salutation.
The Lord is very near, why say thou that He is far away? Pause.
Bind thou thy pugnacious passions, and attain unto thy Beauteous Lord.
He alone is a Qazi, who reflects on the reality of human body,
and who is illumined by the Lord, through the fire of the body.
He, who allows not his seed to drop even in dream;
for such Qazi, there is no old age or death.
He alone is the Sovereign, who aims two arrows,
restrains his wandering mind,
and gathers his army in the realm of his mind's sky.
Such a monarch wears an umbrella over his head.
Gorakh, Gorakh, the Yogi cries out.
The Hindu utters the name of Rama.
For the Musalmans, There is but One Khuda.
But the Lord of Kabir is pervading all over.
Fifth Guru.
They, who say the stone is a god;
in vain is their service.
He, who falls at the feet of the stone;
vain goes his labour.
My Lord ever speaks.
The Lord gives gifts to all the living beings. Pause.
The Lord is within, but the (spiritually) blind one knows not.
Deluded by doubt, he is caught in a noose.
The stone speaks not, nor gives any thing.
In vain are the ceremonies of the idolater, and fruitless his service.
If the dead body be anointed with sandal,
say, what gain can he obtain there from?
If the corpse be rolled in ordure,
then what does the corpse lose thereby?
Says Kabir, I proclaim with a loud voice,
see and understand me, O ignorant infidel.
The love of other has destroyed many homes.
Ever in bliss are the Lord's saints.
The fish in the water are attached to mammon.
The lamp moths are pierced through with mammon.
The mammon of lust is clung to the elephant.
The serpents and bumble-bees perish through mammon.
O brother, so bewitching is the mammon,
that as many as are the beings, so many it has deceived. Pause.
The birds and the deer are imbued in mammon.
Sugar causes great hardship to the flies.
The horses and camels are absorbed in mammon.
The eighty four men of miracles sport in mammon.
The six celibates are the slaves of mammon.
So are the nine great Yogis, the sun and the moon.
The penitents and the Supreme sages are asleep in mammon.
In the sway of mammon are death and the five demons.
The dogs and jackals are dyed in mammon.
Similarly, the monkeys, leopards and lions,
the cats, sheep, foxes,
trees, and tubers are rooted in mammon.
Even the gods are saturated with mammon,
so are the oceans, the sky and the earth.
Says Kabir, the mammon afflicts any one who has needs (belly).
When one meets with the saint, then alone man is freed from mammon.
As long as one says, "mine, it is mine".
So long not even one of his tasks is accomplished.
When his mine-ness is removed,
then the Lord comes and adjusts his affairs,
O my soul, ponder thou over such Divine knowledge.
Why thou not meditate on thy God, the Destroyer of pain? Pause.
As long as the tiger inhabits the forest,
till then the forest flowers not.
When the jackal eats the tiger,
then the entire forest fills with flowers.
The victorious are drowned, and the defeated swim across.
By the Guru's grace, one is emancipated.
Kabir, the Lord's slave, proclaims and instructs thus:
O man, remain thou absorbed in the love of thy Lord alone.
He who has seventy hundred commanders,
whose prophets are a lakh and quarter.
Who is said to own eighty eight myriads of Shaikhs,
and whose courtiers are fifty six millions.
What access, can I, the poor man, have there?
His court is afar off Rare is the one, who can get at His mansion. Pause.
He has thirty three millions of play-houses.
His beings madly wander in eighty four lakhs of existences.
The Lord showed some favour to Baba Adam,
and he obtained paradise for a long time.
Pale are the faces of those, whose minds are perturbed.
They forsake their religious books and practise evil.
He who blames the Lord of the world and is cross with the people;
he receives the fruit of his deeds.
Thou are the Giver, O Lord, and I am ever a beggar at Thy gate.
If I deny Thee, then I become a sinner.
Kabir, Thy slave, has entered into thy refuge.
Keeps me near Thee, O Merciful Master and that is heaven for me.
Everyone talks of going thither,
I know not where heaven is. Pause.
They who know not the mystery of their ownself,
talk of heaven through mere words.
As long as the mind cherishes hope for the heaven,
so long one abides not in the Lord's feet.
Its moat and rampart well plastered with mud,
or the heaven's gate, I know not.
Says Kabir, what more can I say now,
than that the society of the saints alone is the heaven?
O brother! How can the beauteous fortress be conquered,
which has double the ramparts and triple the moats? Pause.
Its mean of defense are the five elements, with their twenty five categories, worldly love, pride, jealousy and the crooked and very powerful mammon.
The strength of the poor man avails not, to take the fortress, what should I do now, O God the king of Raghwa?
Lust is its shutters, woe and weal its gate-keepers and demerits and merits its gates.
The very quarrelsome wrath is its great and renowned general and mind is the rebel king there.
The defenders have armour of dainties, helmet of worldly love and bow of evil understanding to aim with.
Covetousness, that abides in the mind is the arrows. This wise the fortress has become impregnable.
Making Divine love the fuse and meditation the howitzer, I have fired the shell of Divine knowledge.
The fire of the Lord is lit through poise, and with one shot the fortress is captured.
Taking with me truth and contentment, I began to fight and battered both its gates.
Associating with the saints and by the Guru's grace, I captured the king of the fortress.
Taking with me the army of God's warriors, and through the power of the Lord's meditation, I have snapped the noose of fear of death.
Kabir, the Lord's slave has mounted the fortress, and obtained an imperishable empire.
The mother Ganges is deep and profound.
Loaded with chains, they took Kabir there.
My mind is crest fallen not, why should my body fear?
My mind is absorbed in the Lord's lotus feet. Pause.
My chains were broken by the waves of the Ganges,
and I saw myself seated on a deer-skin.
Says Kabir, I have no friend and comrade.
God, the Lord of Raghwas is my Protector on water and land.
Bhairo Kabir Ji Ashtpadis.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The Lord constructed an unparalleled and unreachable fortress for His residence,
wherein shine His light.
The lightning flashes and bliss reigns in the place,
where abides my young Lord Master.
If this soul is attuned to the Lord's Name,
man is released from old age and death and his doubt flees away. Pause.
He, whose mind loves to know the low caste and high caste,
chants the eulogies and songs of ego.
The sound of the unstruck melody resounds at the place,
Where the Reverend Lord, the world-Cherisher abides.
He the Lord creates the continents, worlds and universes,
and destroys the three worlds, three gods and the three qualities.
That inaccessible and Inapprehensible Lord abides within the mind.
No one can find the limit and the secret of the Sustainer of the earth.
The Lord shines in the plantain, flower and the sun-shine.
He has taken an abode in the pollen of the lotus.
The Lord's spell is within the twelve petals of the heart,
in which place reposes the Sire spouse of Lakshmi.
The Lord, who sky-like pervades the lower, upper and middle regions;
He sheds light in the silent realm of the Tenth gate.
The sun and the moon are not there,
but the Primal and Immaculate Lord makes merry there.
Deem thou Him in the universe and Him in the body too.
Bathe thou in the Lord's 'Mansarovar'.
Contemplate thou Him, whose pass-word is "He is me".
Such is the Lord, whom no filth of merits and demerits attaches.
The Lord whom low caste, high caste, sun-shine and shade touch not,
is found in the Guru's asylum and no where else.
The attention that is fixed on the Lord is diverted not by diverting and man is released from transmigration,
and he easily remains merged in the Lord.
If any one realises the Lord in his mind, he is fulfilled.
Whatever he utters that happens spontaneously.
Whosoever firmly fixes the Lord's Light and the Name within his mind;
says Kabir, that mortal swims across the world-ocean.
Such is my Lord, for whom millions of suns shine,
and who has millions of Shivas and Kailashes, where Shiva abides.
Such is He, whose feet millions of goddesses shampoo,
and for whom millions of Brahmas utter the Vedas.
When I beg, then beg I only the Lord's Name.
I have nothing to do with any other God. Pause.
Myriads of moons sparkle in the Lord's will.
Thirty-three hundred thousands gods partake of His food.
The myriads of the groups of nine stars stand at His door.
Millions of Righteous Judges are His gate-keepers.
Millions of winds blow round Him in four directions.
Millions of serpents spread His bedding.
Millions of oceans are whose water-carriers.
The eighteen million loads of vegetation are His hair.
Millions of treasures fill his treasures.
Millions of Lakshmis decorate themselves to please Him.
Many Millions of sins and virtues look up to Him.
Millions of Indras perform whose service.
Fifty six millions are whose clouds.
In very town is His infinite celebrity.
With its loose tresses, the dreadful death works before Him.
In millions of ways the Lord plays,
There are millions of gratuitous feasts in His court,
and millions of celestial singers hail Him.
Myriads of sciences all utter His praise.
Even then they can find not the end of the Supreme Lord.
In His one hair are millions of Bawan's incarnations,
Rama who outmaneuvered Rawan's army,
thousand millions of Puranas, which greatly extol Him,
and Krishna, who humbled the pride of Duryodhan.
Millions of cupid can compete with Him not.
He steals away the man's inmost heart.
Says Kabir, hear Thou my supplication, O God, the Lord of the world.
I ask this boon of Thee, bless Thou me with the fearless dignity.
Bhairo Hymns of Nam Dev Ji.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O tongue I will cut thee up into hundred bits,
if thou recite not the Lord God's Name.
O my tongue, be thou imbued with the Lord's Name.
Meditating on the Lord God, be thou dyed with the good dye. Pause.
False, O my tongue, are other occupations.
The Imperishable rank is obtained through the Lord's Name alone.
The performance of countless millions of other worships,
equal not the meditation of the one Lord's Name.
Prays Nam Dev, thy task is to continue recite the Name.
O Lord, endless are Thine forms.
He, who forsakes another's wealth and another's woman,
near him abides my Lord, the Man-Lion.
They, who meditate not on their Lord;
I like not to have their sight. Pause.
In the mind of whom is the separation from the Lord;
such men are like the beasts.
Supplicates Nam Dev, a man without the nose,
does not look right even if he may have other thirty two beauteous marks.
A cup of milk and a jug of water is brought,
by Nam Dev, having milked the brown cow.
Drink Thou milk, O my Sovereign Lord,
If Thou drink milk, my mind shall be happy,
otherwise the house-Lord, my father will be mad at me. Pause.
Taking the golden cup, Nama filled it with the ambrosial milk,
and placed it before his Lord.
The saint alone abides within my mind.
On seeing Nama, the Lord smiled.
Making the Lord drink the milk, the devotee returned home,
and thus did Nama see the Lord's vision.
I am crazy and the Lord is my Spouse.
For Him I decorate myself elaborately.
Slander me well slander well, slander me well, O people,
My body and soul are for my beloved Lord. Pause.
Hold thou no discussion and argument with anyone.
With thy tongue sap thou the Lord's elixir.
Now I know within my mind that such an arrangement has been made,
by which I shall meet Lord with the beat of drum.
Whether one praises me or slanders me,
Nama has met that Lord, the Lover of eminence.
Sometimes man likes not even milk, sugar and ghee.
Sometimes the Lord makes him beg bread from door to door.
Sometimes, he picks up gram out of husk.
As the Lord makes me live, so do live I, O brother,
the glory of God can be described not even a bit. Pause.
At times man(while riding) horses and steeds makes them to dance.
At times, he obtains not shoes for his feet.
Some times, the Lord makes man sleep on a couch with a white coverlet.
Sometimes, he gets not even straw to lie down on the ground.
Says Nam Dev the Lord's Name alone saves one.
He whom the Guru meets; him the Lord ferries across the world ocean.
In a laughing and sportive mood, I came to Thy temple, O Lord.
Whilst Nama, was worshipping, he was caught hold of and driven away.
A low caste is mine, O my Lord, the king of Yadwas.
Why was I born a calico-printer? Pause.
Taking up his blanket, Nama went back,
and going behind the temple sat down there.
As Nam Dev uttered the Lord's praise,
so did the temple turn towards the saintly person.
Bhairo Nam Dev Ji.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
As the hungry man loves food,
as the thirsty man has business with water,
and as a fool is dedicated unto is his dear ones,
so does Nama love his Lord.
Nama is in love with His Lord.
He has easily become detached. Pause.
As a woman is involved in love with another person,
as a greedy man loves riches,
and as a lustful man loves a women,
so does Nama love his Lord, the enemy of ego.
That is real love, by which the Lord attaches man to Himself,
and by which duality departs, through the Guru's grace.
Nama's love breaks not ever and he remains merged in his Lord.
Nama has attached his mind to the True Name.
As is the love between a child and its mother,
so is my soul imbued with God.
Supplicates Nam Dev, that I have imbibe affection,
for the Lord of the universe, who abides within my mind.
The mind-blind-man abandons the wife of his home,
and has an affair with another's woman,
He is like the parrot, who is pleased to see the tree of Bombax hepta phylum,
but at last dies clinging to it.
The home of the sinner is in the midst of fire.
It continues to burn and its fire quenches not ever. Pause.
He goes not to see where the Lord is worshipped.
He abandons the Lord's path and goes the wrong way.
Forgetting the Primal Lord, he suffers transmigration,
he throws away the Nectar-Name and loads and eats poison.
He is like the whore, who when coming to the dancing arena,
wears fine clothes and adorns herself.
She dances to the tune and her lover is enraptured seeing her breathe.
But round her neck is the noose of the Death's courier.
He on whose forehead good destiny is writ;
he hastens and enters the Guru's sanctuary.
Says Nam Dev, O saints, my deliberation is this,
that in this way alone thou shall be ferried across.
Sanda and Marka went and complained to Harnakhash: Thy son studies not, we are tired of him, 
he utters the Lord's Name and claps his hands to keep tune and has spoiled all the pupils;
he recites Lord's Name,
and within his mind he has enshrined the Sire Lord's meditation". Pause.
The chief queen imploringly says to Prahlad, "The king has subjugated the whole earth,
but thou, O my son Prahlad, obey him not; thus he has made up his mind to deal with thee in another way".
The council of the villains met and passed a resolution to make Prahlad's life longer.
God, the King, transformed the natural laws for the sake of Prahlad, laws for the sake of Prahlad, and though thrown down a mountain and a tree, cast into water and fire, and subjected to death's dread, the Lord did save him.
Burning with rage, Harnakhash drew his sword and threatened Prahlad with the fear of death and thundered, "Tell me, who can save thee?"
Prahlad said, "Orpiment like yellow-robed God, the Master of the three world, is in the pillar to which I am tied".
He, who tore Harnakhash with His nails, proclaimed himself the Lord of gods and men.
Says Nam Dev, I meditate on that Lord, the Man-lion, who is the Giver of fearless dignity
The emperor said: "Hear thou, O Nama,
let me see the doings of thy Lord".
The emperor had Nama arrested, and said:

Restore to life of this slaughtered cow,
otherwise I shall strike off thy head on this very spot".
Replied Nama: "O king, how can it happen,
can any one reanimate the slaughtered one?
By my doing, nothing can be done.
Whatever the Lord does, that alone takes place".
The king flew into pride.
He infuriated a huge elephant.
Nama's mother began to wail and she said:
why not you recite the God of Muslims and abandon the God of Hindus?
Nama replied: "I am not thy son, and you are not my mother,
I would sing the Lord's praise, even if my body perishes".
The elephant struck him a blow with his trunk,
but Nama was saved through the Lord's protection.
The King said: "The Qazis and Mullas make obeisance unto me,
but this Hindu has trampled my honour".
The Hindus said: "O king! Please listen to our plea,
and take gold from us equivalent to Nama's weight and release him".
Said the king: "If I take wealth, then I shall fall into hell.
Should I amass worldly wealth by abandoning my religion?"
With fetters on His feet, by beating tune with his hands,
Nama sang the praise of the Lord.
Said Nam Dev: "Even if the Ganges and the Jamna start flowing backwards,
even then, I Nama, shall continue uttering the God's Name". (N.B. Nama was given three hours to re-animate the cow, otherwise he was to suffer death).
When it was heard that a time of the seven Gharis had elapsed,
even by then, the Lord of the three worlds had not arrived. (N.B. A. Ghari is equal to 24 minutes).
Playing upon the instrument of wings,
and mounted on an eagle the world-Lord came.
God, the Cherisher of the world, took compassion on His saint,
and came mounted on an eagle.
Uttered the Lord: "If you request, I will turn the earth on its side,
and upon your request, I may place it upside down.
Upon your request, I may restore the dead cow to life,
so that everyone may see and be convinced".
Prays Nama: "My Lord, fasten Thou the spancel to the cow to milk it".
Releasing the calf, the cow was milked.
When the pitcher was filled with the milk,
Nama took and placed it before the emperor.
Thereafter, the king went into his palace,
and the hour of trouble came upon him.
Through the Qazis and Mullas, the king made a supplication:
Pardon me thou, O Hindu, I am thy cow.
Said Nama: "Hear thou, O king,
has this miracle been exhibited by me?
The object of this miracle is that,
O emperor, though should walk on the path of truth and humility".
Thereafter, Nam Dev was renowned all over.
A body Hindus went to Nama and discussed amongst themselves,
that if the cow had not been resurrected this time,
then people would have lost faith in Nam Dev.
The celebrity of Nam Dev spread through the world.
Taking the pious persons with him, Nama ferried across the world-ocean.
All the trouble and agony befell the slanderer.
Between Nam Dev and the Lord there is no difference.
Tune named 2nd house.
When the Guru-God is Merciful then one meets with God, the enemy of ego.
When the Guru God is Merciful, then one is ferried across.
When the Guru-God is Merciful, then one swims over to the Lord's realm.
When the Guru God is merciful, then one attains death in life.
True, true, true, true, true is the Divine Guru.
False, false, false, false, false is all other service. Pause.
When the Guru-God is Merciful, then he enshrines the Name in man.
When the Guru-God is Merciful, one wanders not in ten directions.
When the Divine Guru is Merciful, the mortal is removed afar from the five demons.
When the Divine Guru is Merciful, he dies not regretting.
When the Divine Guru is Merciful, the one is blessed with the ambrosial Gurbani.
When the Divine Guru is Merciful, then he utters the story of Ineffable Lord.
When the Guru-God is compassionate, then immortal becomes one's body.
When the Guru-God is merciful, he utters the Lord's Name.
When man meets the Divine Guru, he sees the three worlds.
When he meets the Divine Guru he understands supreme dignity.
When man meets with the Divine Guru, then his head (spiritual height) touches the sky.
When man meets with the Divine Guru, he is ever congratulated.
When the Divine Guru becomes compassionate, one ever remains detached.
When the Divine Guru is Merciful, one abandons the slander of others.
When the Divine Guru is Merciful, man deems bad and good alike.
When the Divine Guru is merciful, he has good destiny writ on his brow,
When the Guru-God is Compassionate, the body wall wears not off.
When the Guru-God is Merciful the temple turns towards the mortal.
When the Guru-God is Compassionate, then the thatched but is built.
When the Guru-God is Merciful, the cot comes out of the water.
When the Divine Guru is in mercy, then one is deemed to have bathed in sixty eight holies.
When the Divine Guru is in mercy, then one is deemed to have bathed in sixty eight holies.
When the Divine Guru is in mercy, one is deemed to have his body impressed with the quoit.
When the Divine Guru is in mercy, then man is deemed to have performed twelve worship.
When the Guru-God is merciful, then man's doubt is dispelled.
When the Divine Guru is in mercy, one obtains freedom from Death's courier.
When the Guru-God is merciful, then man crosses the dreadful ocean.
When the Guru-God is Merciful, then he is neither born nor he dies.
When the Guru-God becomes merciful, man understands the vocations of eighteen Puranas.
When the Guru-God is Merciful, one is deemed to worship God, with the offering of the eighteen loads of vegetation.
Without the Guru-God, there is no other place of rest.
Nam Dev has entered the sanctuary of the Guru.
Bhairo Hymns of Ravi Dass Ji.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Without seeing the Lord, the desire to meet him wells up not.
Whatsoever is seen, that shall pass away.
He, who utters the Lord's Name with praise,
that Yogi alone is desire-free.
When some one utters the Lord's name with love,
coming in contact with God, the philosopher's stone, he become free from duality. Pause.
He alone is the silent sage, who destroys his mind's duality.
Without seeking the protection of the Guru's door, O man, how shall thou merge in the Lord of the three worlds?
Every man acts according to his mind's disposition.
He, who is attached to the creator-Lord, he alone remains fear free.
The vegetation blossoms for producing fruit.
When it fruitions, then the flowers decay.
For the sake of Divine knowledge the religious deeds are practised.
When Divine knowledge is obtained, then the deeds come to an end.
For ghee, the wise people churn the curd.
Similarly they who are blessed with gnosis, they are emancipated while alive and ever remain detached.
Says Ravi Das, O man without luck,
why you do not contemplate on Lord in thy mind with profound love?
Nam Dev.
O beautifully-faired God, the conjurer,
come wearing the dress of a saint. Pause.
Thou are the Lord, who wears the hat of firmament over thy head and who has the seven under-worlds as Thine slippers.
All the skin-wearers are thy mansions, In this way, Thou look beauteous, O the Cherisher of the world.
The fifty six myriads of clouds is Thine gown, and sixteen thousand queens are Thou trousers.
The eighteen loads of vegetation is Thy club and the whole world is Thy salver.
Human body is the mosque and mind the priest, who tranquilly says the prayer.
With lady Lakshmi Thy marriage is solemnized, and through her, O Formless Lord Thou seem to possess form.
While I was performing Thy Love-worship, Thou had my cymbals snatched. To whom should I complain?
Nama's Lord, the Searcher of hearts, though country-less, is walking around every where.
Rag Basant 1st Guru Chaupadas Dotukas
There is but One God, True is His Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His form. He is Fearless, Sans enmity, Unborn and Self-illumined. By the Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Amongst months, auspicious is the month, when the spring season ever begins.
Ever, ever bloom thou, O my soul, by remembering that Lord of the world.
O ignorant man, forget thou thy haughty intellect.
Still thou thy ego, meditate on God in thy heart, and within thy mind gather thou the virtues of the sublime virtuous Lord. Pause.
The virtuous deeds are the tree, God's Name its flowers and the Divine knowledge its fruit.
Attainment of God are its leaves, and effacing of mind's ego its dense shade.
Whosoever sees the Lord's Omnipotence with his eyes, hears the Guru's word with his ears and utters the True Name with his mouth;
He obtains the full wealth of honour, and his attention is easily fixed on the Lord.
The months and seasons continue coming, See, that thou does the pious deeds.
Nanak, they who by the Guru's grace remain merged in God, wither not and remain green.
1st Guru Basant.
The months of the delightful spring season have come.
They, who are imbued with Thy love, O Lord, utter Thine Name with joy.
Without Thee, whom else should I worship, and at whose feet should I fall?
My King, I am said to be the slave of Thine slaves.
O my Master, the life of the world, Thou are not met with by any other device. Pause.
Thou has one personality, but many forms.
Which of Thine forms should worship, and burn incense before.
No one has found Thine limit, O Lord, How can any one find it?
I call myself the servant of Thine servants, O my Sovereign.
Sixty (all) years and all the pilgrim stations are made by Thee.
True is Thy Name, O supreme Lord.
O Eternal Lord, Thy state can not be known.
Even when one does not understand Thee, one ought to utter Thy Name, O Lord!
What can poor Nanak say?
All the men praise but the one Lord.
Nanak places his head on the feet of such persons.
I am a sacrifice unto Thine Names, as many as they are, O Lord.
Basant 1st Guru.
Cooking place is of gold, and of gold are the vessels.
The silver lines of the square are extended afar.
The water is of the Ganges and the fire from the fire wood of Carissa carandas tree.
The food is of the fine rice boiled in milk.
O my soul, these are not at all of any account,
until you are not saturated with the True Name. Pause.
Though man may have with him eighteen Puranas written in his hand,
and he may recite the four Vedas by heart,
and he may bathe on the festivals and give alms according to the caste,
and he may observe fasts and perform religious ceremonies day and night;
and he may be a Qazi, a Mulla or a Shaikh,
and he may be a Yogi, a wandering sage or an hermit of ochre-coloured dress,
and be a house-holder and the performer of religious rites;
but without knowing the Lord, all are bound down and driven along by the Yama.
As many as are the beings, on the head of so many are writ their tasks.
According to their deeds, they shall be judged.
The foolish and ignorant ones issue orders.
Nanak, the True One is the owner of the treasures of praises.
Basant 3rd Guru.
What is it, if a man becomes naked by tasking off his cloths?
Wearing matted hair, how can he practise Yog?
What avails it to hold the breath within the tenth gate, if the mind is not pure?
The foolish person wanders, wanders and enters into transmigration again and again.
O my silly soul, contemplate thou the One Lord alone,
and thou shall cross over in an instant. Pause.
They, who expound 27 Simritis and 6 Shastras,
and the pipers and reciters, who read 18 Puranas,
but if their eye and mind practise hypocrisy and deception;
then the Pervading God comes not near them.
If there be such a practiser of self-control,
who performs good deed and worship,
but if within him is avarice and his mind is engrossed in sins;
how can he obtain the Immaculate Lord?
What can be done the one, who himself is a creation,
driven by the God Himself.
If the Lord shows mercy, then does He dispel man's doubt.
When man realises His will, then obtains he the True Lord.
He whose mind is filthy from within,
what benefit can he avail in wandering over the holy places of the world?
Nanak, when man meets with the society of the True Guru,
it is then that his bonds of the terrible world-ocean are loosened.
Basant 1st Guru.
Thy mammon, O Lord, has bewitched all the worlds.
I see not another, everywhere Thou are.
Thou are the Lord of the great Yogis and gods.
Serving the Guru's feet, God's Name is obtained.
O my beauteous deep and unfathomable Beloved Lord,
by the Guru's grace I sing Thine praises; Thou are infinite and the cherisher of all. Pause.
Without the saint, God's association is obtained not.
Without the Guru, man's mind remains filthy with filth.
Without God's name, one becomes not pure.
Through the Guru's word, the mortal sings the praise of that True Lord.
One whom Thou saved; O saviour Lord,
him Thou lead on to the True Guru, and this wise Thou take care of him.
Thou purge him of the poisonous pride and worldly love.
Through Thee, O sovereign Lord, all his sufferings are dispelled.
Sublime becomes man's state and condition, fi he cultivates God's virtues in his body,
By the Guru's instruction, the gem of the Lord's Name becomes manifest.
Then one is attuned to the Lord's Name and is rid of another's love.
O God, make Thou slave Nanak meet the great Guru.
Basant 1st Guru.
O my mates and friends, listen to me with love.
He, my Beauteous Spouse is ever with me.
He is Unseeable and can be seen not. How can I narrate Him?
The Sovereign Lord, the Guru has shown me with me.
Meeting with my mates and friends, I am adorned by singing God's praise.
The sublime brides play with their Lord Master. Searching within, by the Guru's grace, their mind is propitiated. Pause.
The separated egocentrics know not his mystery,
that He, the Lord of all, makes merry in all hearts.
Seeing God with him, the Guruward is rendered ever-stable.
The Guru has implanted the Name within me, and I contemplate and remember it.
Without the Guru, the love for God's service wells up not within the mortal.
Without the Guru, the Lord blesses not man with the saints association.
Without the Guru, the blind one wails in worldly pursuits.
Washing off filth by the supreme Guru's instruction, man is rendered immaculate.
Meeting with the Guru, man stills his mind.
Day and night he revels in the Yoga of Lord's love-worship.
Associating with the saint-Guru, miseries and maladies are ended.
Servant Nanak has easily met his God, the spouse.
Basant 1st Guru.
By His might, the Lord Himself has made the make.
The king of kings, of Himself administers true justice.
Whosoever by the Guru's sublime instruction, realises the Lord with him;
he easily acquires the wealth of God's Name, the home of elixir.
O my soul, utter thou the Lord's Name, and forget it not.
Inapprehensible and yonder of the yond. By the Guru's grace, the Lord, whose weight is inestimable causes Himself to be weighed. Pause
The Guru's disciples of Thine, O Lord, service the Guru's feet.
Abandoning the distinction of mine and thine they ferry across by serving the Guru.
The slanderous and avaricious persons are stone-hearted.
They who love not the Guru's service, are the thieves of the thieves.
Being pleased, the Guru blesses one with the Lord's loving-worship.
When the Guru is merciful, man obtains a seat in the Lord's mansion.
Forsake thou slandering others, and be wakeful in the Lord's meditation.
Beauteous is God's meditation. By His grace, one obtains share in it.
Giving the gift of God's Name, the Guru unites man in His union.
His Sikhs, the Guru loves day and night.
The Sikh obtains the fruit of God's Name, when becoming merciful, the Guru blesses him with it.
Says Nanak, rare is the one, who obtains the Name-fruit.
Basant 3rd Guru Ik-Tuka.
If the Lord wills, the Lord's slave serves Him.
He remains dead in life and emancipates his entire lineage.
I forsake not Thy meditation, O Lord, what if people laugh at me.
Thine True Name is enshrined within my mind. Pause.
As the mortal remains engrossed in the love of the worldly valuables,
so remains the saintly person absorbed in the Lord's name.
O Lord take pity on me the unwise and ignorant one,
that I may ever abide in Thy refuge.
Says Nanak, fruitless are the worldly affairs.
By the Guru's grace, some rare one is blessed with the Nectar-Name.
1st Guru Basant Hindol
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O Brahman, thou worship and propitiate the stone-god and deem it a good act to wear the rosary of sweet basil.
Build thou the boat of the meditation of the Lord's Name and pray, "O Merciful Master, Take Thou pity on me".
Why irrigate thou the field of saltpeter and thus waste thy human life?
The wall of mud shall surely fall. Why plaster it thou with lime? Pause.
Make God thy well, string to its chains the buckets of His Name and yoke thy mind as an ox thereto.
Irrigate, thou with Nectar and fill the small plots therewith. Then shall thou belong to the Gardener.
Make both lust and wrath thy hand-hoes and therewith loosen thy farm, O brother.
The more thou hoest, the more the peace, thou shall obtain. The deeds done can be effaced not.
If Thou so bless, O Merciful Master, the crane is again transformed into the swan.
Prays Nanak, the slave of Thine slave, O my Merciful Master, have Thou mercy upon me.
Basant 1st Guru Hindol.
In her Husband's House, the articles jointly belong to all, but in this world, the bride owns them separately.
She herself is ill-intellect. How can she shame others? She knows not how to reserve her articles.
My Lord, I myself am straying in doubt.
I sing the word writ by the Guru. I know not another sermon. Pause.
If thou wear the Name embroide4red over-all, then alone thou shall be known the Lord's bride.
If thou preserve thy home and taste not sins, then thou shall be the beloved of thy spouse.
If thou are the literate and wise Brahman, then make thou the boat of the two, only two letters of God.
Prays Nanak, if thou are merged in the True Name, the One Lord shall ferry thee across
Basant Hindol 1st Guru.
The city is frail and the king is a boy who loves the wicked.
You read of his two mothers and two fathers, O Pandit, reflect thou on this.
O sire Pandit, tell me,
the way, by which I can attain unto the Lord of Life? Pause.
The vegetation flowers, though within it is fire and the ocean is bound as if in bundle.
The sun and the moon both abide in the same sky home. Thou has obtained not such knowledge.
Whosoever eats up the one mammon; he deems the Lord pervading all over.
Know that attribute of such a man is that he amasses the wealth of compassion.
The mind lives with those who listen not to advice and admit not what they eat.
Prays Nanak, the slave of the Lord's slave, such is the mind that in a moment it is great and in another moment small.
Basant Hindol 1st Guru.
The Guru is the peace-giving true banker, who unites man with God and satiates his hunger.
Showering his benediction, he implants God's loving worship in man, and he then night and day sings God's praise.
O my soul, meditate thou on thy Lord, and forget Him not.
Without the Guru, one is emancipated not any where in the three worlds. By the Guru's grace, the Lord's Name is attained. Pause.
Without devotion the True Guru is obtained not, and without destiny one is blessed not with the Lord's loving adoration.
Without good fortune, society of saints is acquired not and through the Lord's grace the Lord's Name is obtained.
God creates and beholds all and is hidden within every heart. By the Guru's grace, He becomes manifest in the pious persons.
They, who utter the Lord's Name are drenched with the Lord's love, and their mind is irrigated with the ambrosial water of God's Name.
They, who are blessed with the glory of a seat on the Lord's throne; by the Guru's grace, they are rendered supreme.
Meeting with the philosopher's stone, they themselves are transmuted into philosopher s stone and become the comrades of the Divine Guru.
Basant, 3rd Guru, Do-tukey.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
In all the months and seasons, the Lord is ever in bloom.
It is through Him, that all the creatures, are reverdured.
What can I, a worm like creature say?
No one has found Thy beginning and end, O my Lord.
They who perform Thy service O Lord!
They obtain the supreme peace and their soul is illumined. Pause.
If the Lord is merciful, then man performs His service,
and by the Guru's grace, remains dead in life.
One who recites the True Name, day and night,
by doing so, crosses the impassable world ocean.
Poison and nectar, the Creator has created.
To the world-plant, He has attached two fruits.
The Creator Himself is the Doer and Cause.
He whom he likes; He feeds him.
On whomsoever the Lord casts His gracious glance;
He, of Himself blesses him with the Nectar-Name.
His desire for sins, the Lord effaces.
His will, the Lord, of Himself carries out.
Basant 3rd Guru.
Happy are they, who are imbued with the Lord's True Name.
O Merciful Lord of the poor, take Thou pity on me.
Without Him, I lean not on another.
As He wills, so does He keep me.
The Guru-God is pleasing unto my mind.
I can live not without seeing the Lord's vision. If the Guru unites me in the Lord's union, I shall easily meet with Him. Pause.
This greedy soul is beguiled by avarice.
Forgetting the Lord it ultimately regrets.
The separated souls, which are imbued with the Guru's service; them the Lord unites with Himself.
They who have good destiny writ on their brow; them the Guru blesses with the God's Name.
This frame of the body is built of the air and water.
The body is gripped with the pain of the severe malady of self-conceit.
By the Guru's grace, I have taken the medicine of singing the praise of the Lord's Name,
and the Guru, in his mercy has rid me of malady.
The four evils (of cruelty, love, avarice and wrath) are the four streams of fire in the body.
Man burns in desire and burns he in ego as well.
Very fortunate are they whom the Guru saves and ferries across.
Such slaves, O Nanak, enshrine the God's Nectar-Name within their mind.
Basant 3rd Guru.
Whosoever serves God; he alone is the God's man.
He abides in truth and poise and comes not to grief ever.
The egocentrics are dead for within their mind they contemplate not the Lord.
They die, suffer transmigration and perish again.
Those persons alone live, who cherish God in their mind.
They remember the True Lord, and in the True Lord merge they. Pause.
They, who serve not God, are removed from God.
In vain wander they abroad and throw dust upon their head.
His servants, God yokes to His service.
They ever abide in bliss and have not even an iota of avarice.
When God shows mercy, man is rid of his ego.
He, then obtains honour in the True court.
He sees the Sire Lord ever close at hand,
and through the Guru's instruction, he realises the Lord fully filling all.
All the sentient beings, the Lord sustains.
By the Guru's grace, ever cherish thou Him.
The servant of the True court goes home with honour.
Through the Lord's Name, O Nanak, he is blessed with glory.
Basant 3rd Guru.
He, who in his mind worships his Lord,
sees Him alone and none else.
Attached to duality, people suffer terribly.
The True Guru has shown me the One Lord.
My Lord ever abides in bloom and bliss.
This mind flowers by hymning the praise of the Lord of the universe. Pause.
If thou take instruction from the Guru and reflect on it,
then shall thou love thy True Lord.
Abandon thy self-conceit, and entertain thou the sentiments of a slave,
then shall God, the life of the world, come and abide in thy mind.
One ought to embrace the Lord's meditation and ever see Him just near.
My Master is ever fully filling all.
Some rare one knows the mystery of this loving worship of God.
My Lord is the llluminator of all the souls.
The True Guru, of Himself, unites man in the Lord's union.
Of himself, the Guru attaches his mind to the Lord, The Life of the world.
His soul and body are spontaneously reverdured.
Nanak, he remains absorbed in the love of the Lord's Name.
Basant 3rd Guru.
God, the Lover of His saints, comes and abides in man's mind,
by the Guru's grace, with intuitive ease.
Eradicating ego from within him, when man worships Him,
then meets he with the True Lord.
His saints ever look beauteous at the Lord God's door.
By loving the Guru, they cultivate love and affection for the True Lord. Pause.
The mortal who serves the Lord becomes pure,
and through the Guru's instruction, banishes his self-conceit from within himself.
The Venerable Lord Himself comes to abide in his mind,
and he ever remains merged in tranquillity, peace and poise.
They, who are imbued with truth are ever in bliss.
Uttering the Lord's praise, their soul and body become green.
Without the Name altogether dry is the world.
In the fire of desire, it burns over and over again.
If man does only that which pleases the Sire Lord,
then his body ever abides in peace, and his mind remains attached to the Lord's will.
He serves his Lord with intuitive ease,
and the Name comes to abide within his mind, O Nanak.
Basant 3rd Guru.
By the Lord's Name, the love of riches is burnt.
Through the love of the True Guru, the soul and body are reverdured.
At the God's door, the tree of man's soul fruitions,
and his mind loves the true word of the Guru and the Lord's Name.
Loving the True Guru, this soul is easily reverdured,
and comes to bear the True fruit. Pause.
Of Himself the Lord is near and of Himself afar.
By Guru's instruction one sees Him ever present.
The vegetation has flowered, and gives dense shade.
By the Guru's grace, one blossoms forth spontaneously.
One who night and day ever hymns God's praise,
of him, the True Guru drives out sin and doubt.
Seeing the Lord's creation, I am wonder-struck.
By the grace of the Supreme Guru the Lord's Name is obtained.
The Creator, Himself enjoys all the dainties.
Whatever the Lord does that definitely comes to pass.
The Lord is the Great Giver and has not even an iota of avarice.
Practising the Name O Nanak, one meets with his God.
Basant 3rd Guru.
Through perfect destiny one does true deeds.
Remembering the One Lord, man enters not into existences again,
In this world, fruitful is the advent and life of him,
who naturally remains merged in the True Name.
By the Guru's grace, lovingly perform thou the Lord's service.
Eradicating ego from within thee, worship thou the God's Name. Pause.
True is the speech of such a man,
that being in accord with the Guru's teaching, becomes accepted throughout the world.
His true glory is spreading in the four ages.
Imbued with the Name, God's slave becomes renowned.
Some remain merged in the love of the True Name.
True are the persons who love the True Lord.
Seeing the True Lord just near they contemplate Him.
They deem themselves the dust of the lotus feet of the saintly persons.
There is but one Creator-Lord. There is not another.
Through the Guru's word, one is united with God.
Whosoever serves the True Lord; He obtains bliss.
Nanak, he is easily absorbed in the Lord's Name.
Basant 3rd Guru.
Seeing the Lord just present, His slave performs His service.
and deems himself the dust of the lotus feet of the saintly persons.
They, who ever remain attached with God in love;
unto them the Perfect True Guru imparts understanding.
Some rare one becomes the slave of the Lord's slaves.
He attains into the supreme status. Pause.
Serve thou thy One Lord and none else,
by serving whom lasting peace is procured.
He, the Lord dies not, nor comes and goes He.
Without Him, why should I serve another, O mother?
True are the persons, who realise their True Lord.
Silencing their self-conceit, they easily merge in the Name.
By the Guru's grace, the Name is gathered.
Immaculate becomes such man's soul and stainless and true becomes his repute.
Know that God, who has made thee a man of understanding,
and realise thou the one Lord through the Guru's True instruction.
When man tastes God's elixir, then becomes he immaculate.
Nanak, true is the glory of those, who are imbued with the Name.
Basant 3rd Guru.
They, who are imbued with the Name, emancipate their generations.
True is their speech for they love the Name.
Why have the straying egocentrics come into the world?
Forgetting the Name, they lose their human life.
He who dies in life by so dying, he embellishes his death,
By the Guru's gospel, he enshrines the True Name in his heart. Pause.
Truth is the food of the Guru-word and pure is his body,
and his mind is immaculate and he is ever an ocean of virtues.
He comes and goes not, nor suffers he transmigration.
By the Guru's grace, he merges in True Lord.
If man serves the True Lord, he then realises the True;
and then through the Guru's word he goes to the God's court with flying colours.
In the True court, he obtains true glory,
and he acquires an abode in 'His own Home'.
He, the Truest of the true, of Himself is Infallible.
All others go astray and lose their honour in duality.
Through the True word, serve thou the True Lord.
Nanak, contemplating the Name one merges in the True Lord.
Basant 3rd Guru.
Without God's grace, all go astray in doubt.
Through love of riches, man suffers a great pain.
The blind egocentric finds no place of rest.
He is the worm of ordure and putrifies in ordure.
Whosoever obeys the Lord's will; that man becomes acceptable.
By the Guru's instruction, he is blessed with the Name's standard. Pause.
They, who are so pre-destined, get imbued with the True Name.
God's Name is ever pleasing to their mind.
By the True Guru's word, eternal peace is procured,
through it man's soul merges in that supreme soul.
The Name alone emancipates the world.
By the Guru's grace, one loves the Name.
Without the Name, no one obtains emancipation.
Through the Perfect Guru, the mortal is blessed with the Lord's Name.
He alone understands, whom the Lord, of Himself, instructs.
Through the True Guru's service, the Name is implanted within the mortal,
They who know the one Lord; approved are those persons.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the Name, go to the Lord's court flying the Name-banner, O Nanak.
Basant 3rd Guru.
Showing His mercy the Lord leads man on the True Guru.
Of Himself, the Lord comes to bide in man's mind.
Firm becomes the intellect and ever fortitudious the mind of him,
who sings the praise of God, the ocean of virtues.
They, who forget the Name, die of taking poison,
In vain is their life and they continue coming and going again and again. Pause.
Wearing many religious garbs, the soul is tranquillised not.
Through excessive ego, one loses one's honour.
Very lucky are they who realise their Lord's Name,
and bring into home their outgoing mind.
Within the house is an inaccessible and infinite commodity.
They who find it, by Guru's gospel, ponder on the Name.
They, who attain unto the nine treasures of the Name in their very home,
ever dyed with the Lord's love and merge in truth.
God, of himself, does all of one self, one can do not a thing.
When the Lord wills He blends man with Himself.
All are near Him and none is far.
Nanak, the Lord's Name is fully pervading everywhere.
Basant 3rd Guru.
Through the Guru's gospel, contemplate thou the God with love,
and with the elixir of the Lord's Name, thou shall remain sated.
Thy sins of millions over millions of births shall be burnt down.
Remaining dead in life, thou shall merge in the Lord's Name.
The Lord's bounties the Sire Lord Himself knows.
This soul blossoms through the Guru's instruction and utters the Name of God, the Giver of virtues. Pause.
Wandering by wearing ochre-coloured robes one is emancipated not.
Through great self-mortification, no one obtains peace of mind.
By the Guru's instruction, one is blessed with the Name.
Very fortunate is he, who attains unto his Lord.
In the Dark age, magnificence lies in the Name of the Lord,
who is obtained through the Perfect Guru.
Imbued with the Name, one is ever in bliss.
Without the Name, he is burnt to ashes in ego.
The very fortunate ones meditate on the God's Name,
and through the Lord's Name, all their sorrows are ended.
He, who abides in the mind, is pervading also the world without.
Nanak, it is the Creator-Lord, who knows everything.
Basant 3rd Guru lk-tukey.
The wormy mortal is created by Thee, O Lord.
If Thou bless me, then utter I Thy Primal Name.
I utter and reflect upon the virtues of my Master, O my mother.
I contemplate my God, and to God's feet I repair. Pause.
By the Guru's grace, I am attached to the relish of the Lord's Name.
Why waste thou thy life through enmity and strife?
When the Guru showed mercy unto me, then was my ego dispelled,
and I easily obtained the Lord's Name.
Sublime and lofty is the avocation of the Name's contemplation,
Nanak ever utters the Lord's True Name.
Basant 3rd Guru.
The spring season has come and the vegetation is in bloom.
This soul flowers in the association of the True Guru.
Contemplate thou the True Lord, O my silly soul.
Then alone shall thou obtain peace, O my soul. Pause.
With the blooming of this mind, I am in bliss,
and I am blessed with the ambrosial fruit of the Name of the world-Lord.
Every one says and utters, "He, the Lord; Is but one".
If man understands His will, then alone can he realise the One Lord.
Says Nanak, through ego, no one can say what the Lord is like.
Uttering and seeing Him is all through the Lord's grace.
Basant 3rd Guru.
Created by Thee, O God, all the ages have come into being.
Meeting with the True Guru, man's intellect and understanding are awakened.
My Sire God, unite Thou me with Thyself,
and merge me in the True Name, through the Guru's word. Pause.
When there is bliss in the mind, all the men seem reverdured.
Through the Lord's Name, one fruitions, flowers and is ever in bliss.
Ever happy is he, who reflects on the Guru's word,
and enshrines the Lord's Name in his mind.
When there is spring in the mind, the body and soul are reverdured.
Nanak this body is the tree and it bears the fruit of the Lord's Name.
Basant 3rd Guru.
For them alone is the spring season, who hymn the God's praise.
Through perfect good fortune God's devotional-worship is performed.
This mind has no intelligence of the Divine bliss.
This mind is burnt by double mindedness and duality. Pause.
Involved in worldly affairs, this mind does evil deeds.
Beguiled by mammon, it ever bewails.
This mind is released, when it meets with the True Guru.
It then comes not under the blow of the myrmidon of death.
This mind is released, when the Guru emancipates it.
Nanak, the love of the worldly valuable is burnt through the Lord's Name.
Basant 3rd Guru.
With the coming of spring, the vegetation flowers.
These sentient beings bloom only when they fix their mind on the Lord.
In this way, this mind becomes green.
Uttering the Lord God's Name day and night, by the Guru's grace, self-conceit is removed and washed off. Pause.
The True Guru utters the Word and the Name.
This world flowers with love, through the True Guru.
The mortal flowers and fruitions, when the Lord, of Himself, so wills.
When man finds the True Guru, then alone he attaches himself to God, the root of everything.
The Lord, of Himself is the spring season and the world is His garden.
Nanak, by perfect good fortune, the Lord's singular service is performed.
Basant Hindol 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Unto the Guru's Gurbani, I am sacrifice, O brother, and unto the Guru's gospel I am devoted.
I ever praise my Guru, O my brother, and fix my mind in the Guru's feet.
O my soul, fix thou thy mind on the Lord's Name.
Obtaining the fruit of the Name of one God, thy mind and body shall be refreshed. Pause.
They whom the Guru saves, are delivered, O brother. They in-drink God's sweet Nectar.
From within them, the disease of ego is banished and peace comes to abide in their mind, O brother.
They, whom the Lord, Himself forgives, O brother, them He unites with His Name.
They, who unite in the union of the society of saints; through the dust of their feet, one is emancipated, O brother.
he, who reverdures all, O brother. He Himself does and causes to be done everything.
Nanak, in their mind and body, peace is ever enshrined and through the Guru's word, they meets with their Lord.
Rag Basant 4th Guru Ik-tukey.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
As the light of the sun's rays is diffused,
so the Lord is contained in every heart like warp and woof.
The One Lord is pervading all the places,
Through the Guru's word, one meets with One's Lord's, O my mother. Pause.
In all the hearts, He, the one God, is.
Meeting with the Guru, the unique Lord becomes manifest.
The One Lord is fully filling all.
The apostate and avaricious persons think the Lord far.
The one Lord is pervading in every universe.
Nanak, whatever the Lord does; that alone come to pass.
Basant 4th Guru.
Night and day are the two calls, which the Death makes.
O my soul, contemplate thou thy Lord, who ever saves one in the end.
O my mind, ever meditate thou on thy Lord Master,
Singing the praise of the Lord, by the Guru's instruction, the mortal attains unto the Master, the Destroyer of all lassitude and pain. Pause.
The egocentrics, die again and again of ego,
They are destroyed by the death's demon and go to the Yama's city,
To God, God, God are attached in love, the Lord conscious beings.
Their pains of both birth and death are removed.
God shows mercy unto His holy men.
When the Guru becomes merciful, O Nanak, one meets with the Lord of the forest.
Basant Hindol 4th Guru.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The gem of the Lord's Name is hid in a chamber of the place of the Body fortress.
If man meets with the True Guru, then alone he obtains if through search, and his light merges in the Supreme light.
O God, the Lord of wealth, lead me on to the saintly person.
Seeing his vision all my sins are destroyed, and I attain unto the immaculate supreme status. Pause.
The five thieves, in a body, thieve the body township and steal away the wealth of the Lord's Name.
When traced through the Guru's instruction, then were they caught and the wealth and goods were recovered from them intact.
Through hypocrisy and superstition, people have grown weary of making efforts, but in their mind they crave for wealth and property.
Meeting with Guru, the saintly person, my darkness of ignorance is dispelled, and I have obtained God, the Lord of men.
In His mercy, God, the proprietor of the earth, the Lord of the world, and the Master of the universe leads me on to the saint-Guru.
O Nanak, it is then that peace abides within my mind and I ever sing the Lord's praise in my heart.
Basant 4th Guru Hindol.
Thou, O Supreme Person, are the great and Inaccessible Lord of the world. I am but a worm and insect of Thine.
O God Lord, Merciful to be meek, show. Thou compassion unto me. I long for the feet of the Great True Guru.
O Venerable Master of the universe, mercifully unite Thou me with the society of saints.
I was brimful with the sins and filth of many birth. Uniting me with the society of saints, the Lord has made me wholesome. Pause.
The sinner of high caste or of low caste, who becomes Thy slave and contemplates Thee, O God, is rendered immaculate.
Him the God raises above the whole world, and the Lord God blessed him with the Divine glory.
Anyone, caste or no caste, who contemplates his Lord; all his desires are fulfilled.
God's men, who enshrine the Lord God, in their mind; they are blessed, great and greatly perfect.
I am low and foolish like the exceedingly heavy clay-clod. My God Lord, show Thou mercy unto me and unite me with Thyself.
God, in His mercy, has blessed slave Nanak with The Guru, and I, the sinner am now rendered immaculate.
Basant Hindol 4th Guru.
Domesticated to in-drink daily the Nectar of the Lord Master's Name my soul can live not without it even for an instant.
My soul is like the child, who joyfully sucks his mother's teats, and shrieks and wails when the teats are withdrawn from his mouth.
My Venerable Lord, my soul and body are pierced through with the God's Name.
By great good fortune, I have met with my great True Guru, and in the township of my body, the Lord has become manifest. Pause.
As many as are the breaths of the God's slave, so many are pierced through with the love of the Lord God.
As the lotus greatly loves the water, and withers away without seeing the water, so am I without my God.
God's slave utters the immaculate Name of the Lord, the Man-lion, and through the Guru's gospel God reveals Himself to him.
With the ocean of Thy Nectar, O Lord God, my filth of self-conceit of many births is washed off.
Take not my deeds into account, O Lord, and save Thou the honour of Thy own slave.
O God, be Thou pleased to hear my prayer and supplication. Slave Nanak has sought Thy refuge,
Basant Hindol 4th Guru.
Every moment and trice, my mind roams, rambles and greatly runs about. It stays not in its own Home even for an instant.
When the deterrent goad of Guru's gospel is placed over its head, it returns and abides in its own home and mansion.
O my Venerable Lord Master unite me Thou with the society of saints, that I may remember Thee.
Being rid of the ailment of ego, I am blessed with bliss and enter into the trance of equipoise, O my God. Pause.
The, House is loaded with many gems, rubies and emeralds, but the wandering mind can find them not.
As the water-diviner makes the hidden well dug in an instant, so do we find the Name commodity through the True Guru.
They, who find not the such saintly True Guru; accursed, accursed is the life of those persons.
The wealth of human life is attained when the virtues bear fruit, but it is lost in exchange for a shell.
My Lord Master, the Lover of Nectar, show Thou mercy unto me, and mercifully make me meet the Guru.
Servant Nanak bas attained the Imperishable rank, and meeting with the saints, he hymns the God's praise.
Basant Hindol 4th Guru.
The body of the egocentric is forlorn and desolate. Afflicted with the sorrow of sins he comes and goes.
He contemplates not the Lord's Name even for a moment and trice. The death's courier seizes him by the hair.
O my Venerable Lord, abolish Thou the poison of my ego and worldly love.
The Guru's congregation seems sweet unto the Lord. Meeting with that society partake thou the Lord's elixir. Pause.
Mercifully, O Lord, unite Thou me with the society of the saints. I have sought the refuge of Thine saints.
Thou, O Lord, are Merciful to the meek, and the Destroyer of sorrow. Pull Thou me, the sinking stone out of the world ocean.
The Lord God's praise, enshrine I within my mind and meeting with the saints society my intellect is illumined.
I have imbibed affection for God's Name and am a sacrifice unto the Lord.
My God Lord, fulfil Thou the desires of Thy slave. To illumine his mind, bless Thou me with Thy Name, O Lord Master.
Within the mind and body of slave Nanak is bliss, and the Guru has blessed him with the meditation of the God's Name.
Basant 5th Guru. Do-tukey
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I serve my Guru, and pay homage unto Him.
Today is an occasion of festivity for me.
Today I am in supreme bliss.
My anxiety has departed and I have met my God, the Master of universe.
Today it is spring in my home,
and I sing Thine praises, O my Infinite Lord. Pause.
Today I am celebrating the festival of the month of Phagan.
Meeting with the Lord's companions, I have begun to play.
The service of the saint is my playing the Hindu festival of red powder.
With the very red colour of the Lord, I am imbued.
My mind and body have flowered, and very beauteous are they.
They wither not in shade or sunshine,
and flourish they in all the seasons.
Meeting with my Guru-God, I am ever abode in bloom.
The elysian tree has sprung for me.
It bears flowers and gem like fruits of various sorts.
I am sated and satiated, singing God's praises.
On God, God, meditates slave Nanak.
Basant 5th Guru.
They shopkeeper deals in goods to earn wealth.
As the gambler's mind is fixed on the gambling,
an opium-addict lives by eating opium,
So does the God's slave live by remembering God.
Every man is absorbed in his own enjoyment.
Withersoever the Lord attaches him, thither is he attached. Pause.
As the peacock dances during cloudy weather,
and as the lotus blossoms in moon light,
and the Mother is pleased to see her child;
similarly, the man of God, lives by contemplating his Lord.
The tiger ever desires the meat diet.
Beholding the battlefield the warrior's mind is thrilled.
The miser immensely loves his riches.
The God's slave leans only on his Love of the Lord.
All loves are contained in one love of the Lord.
All comforts are contained in the comfort of the Lord's Name.
He alone obtains this treasure,
whom the Guru gives this gift, O Nanak!
Basant 5th Guru.
He alone is in bliss, on whom the Lord is merciful.
He alone is in spring, to whom the Guru is kind.
He alone is in joy, who is dedicated to the sole service of his Lord.
For him there is ever the spring season, within whose mind the abides
In his home alone is accounted the spring.
Within whose mind resounds the melody of the Lord's praise. Pause.
O my soul, flower thou in the love of thy Transcendent Lord.
Consulting the Lord's slaves, practise thou the divine knowledge.
He alone is the penitent who associates with the saints.
He is ever the knower of God, who loves his Guru.
He alone is fear-free, who fears his Lord.
He alone is comfortable whose doubt is dispelled.
He alone is the solitarian, whose mind is stable.
He alone is the solitarian, whose mind is stable.
Whosoever searches and loves the One alone.
Whosoever heartily loves to see the Lord's vision,
and whosoever out of all loves, spontaneously enjoys his God's Love;
Slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto that person.
Basant 5th Guru.
Thou, O Lord, has blessed me with the soul, vital-breath and the body.
Enshrining Thy Light within me, the fool, Thou has made beauteous.
O Lord, Thou are Merciful, all are Thine beggars.
Uttering the Name, one is overjoyed.
My Love, Thou are potent to do all the deeds.
From Thee, obtain I all the things. Pause.
Contemplating the Name one is emancipated.
Contemplating the Name one attains sublime peace and poise.
Contemplating the Name, man is blessed with honour and glory.
Contemplating the Name, no obstacle befalls the mortal.
For the reason this invaluable body has taken existence;
bless me with the recitation of Name, O my Lord.
O Lord, bless Thou me with this peace in the Society of saints,
that I may ever contemplate Thy Name, within my Mind;
without thee, there is no one else.
Without Thee, there is not any other.
As Thou please, so Thou keep me.
O Nanak, peace is attained by meeting with the perfect Guru.
Basant 5th Guru.
My Lord, the King is with me,
seeing whom live I, my mother!
Contemplating whom, man comes not to grief;
my Guru take thou pity on me and lead me on to Him.
My beloved is the support of my life-breath and soul.
My mind, life and wealth are all Thine, O my Master. Pause.
He, whom the angles, men and gods search,
whose mystery the silent sages and Sheikhs can know not;
and Whose state and extent can be narrated not;
in every heart, and in every place, He, the Lord is pervading.
Contemplate thou Him, whose devotees are the embodiment of bliss.
Whose devotee is destroyed not,
whose devotees feels not fear,
and whose devotee is ever acclaimed.
What praise of Thine, O Lord can narrate I?
My peace-giving Lord is pervading every where.
Nanak asks for one bounty from Thee, O Lord.
In Thy mercy, bless Thou me with Thy Name.
Basant 5th Guru.
Receiving water, as the plant grows green.
Similarly in the society of saints one is rid of ego.
As the king consoles his servant,
so does the supreme Guru emancipate his Sikh.
Thou, O Beneficent Lord are the only Giver.
Every moment make I obeisance unto Thee, O my Master. Pause.
He, who is blessed with the saints' society,
that person is imbued with the love of the Transcendent Lord.
His shackles are all shattered.
The saints contemplate their Lord and are united in His Union.
Seeing the Lord's Vision, My eyes are satiated.
With my tongue, hymn I the Lord's infinite praises.
By the Guru's grace, my desire is quenched.
My mind is sated with the relish of God's elixir.
I, Thy slave, am dedicated to thy service at your feet,
O my Limitless, Primal Lord!
Thy Name, O Lord, is the emancipator of all.
Nanak is blessed with this Name treasure.
Basant 5th Guru.
Thou, O great Beneficent Lord, are making gifts.
Thou are contained in my soul and life-breath.
Thou has given me all the diets and dainties.
I, the ungrateful one, have not valued even one goodness of Thine.
I realise not even a bit, Thy worth, O Lord.
Emancipate Thou me, O my merciful Master. Pause.
I have practised not meditation, arduous service and good deeds.
I know not the way to meet with Thee.
Within my mind, I have enshrined the hope in the Lord alone.
I shall be delivered through the support of Thy Name.
Thou are conversant with all are, O Lord.
I am like a fish, which can find not the limit of water.
Thou, O Lord, are Unfathomable, Inaccessible and the highest of high.
I am small and Thou are very great.
Wealthy are they, who meditate on Thee.
They who attain unto Thee; they alone are the men of fortune.
They alone are in peace, who serve Thee.
Nanak has sought the saints refuge.
Basant 5th Guru.
Serve thou Him, O man, who created thee.
Remember thou Him, who has given thee life.
Be thou the servant of Him, then thou shall not be punished again.
Undertake thou the treasureship of Him, then thou shall not suffer sorrow again.
One who is blessed with such great good fortune;
that mortal attains to this fear-free status. Pause.
In vain is the life of him who serves another.
This wise no task is fulfilled.
Very painful is the service of man.
The service of the saint, places man in eternal bliss.
If thou desire ever-lasting peace, O brother,
then associate with the saints; this is the instruction by the Guru.
There the Lord's Name alone is meditated upon.
By the society of saints one is emancipated.
The essence of all essence is the Lord's knowledge.
Of all the meditation, supreme is the meditation of the One Lord.
Singing of the God's praise is the best amongst melodies.
Meeting with the Guru, Nanak celebrates the Lord's Praises.
Basant 5th Guru.
Uttering whose Name, man's mouth becomes pure.
Contemplating whom immaculate becomes pure.
Remembering whom, the Yama molests not.
Through whose service everything is obtained.
The Lord's Name, the Lord's Name, utter thou;
O man, and forsake all craving of thy mind. Pause.
Contemplate thou Him, who upholds the earth and the sky.
Whose light pervades in all the hearts,
and remembering whom the sinners are purified,
and in the end they wail not again and again;
amongst all the religious acts, that meditation is the best.
Of all the rituals and conducts, the work of God's service is the most sublime.
He, whom the angelic persons and gods long for;
He is obtained by being yoked to the service of the society of saints.
He, whom the Primal Lord blesses with His bounty;
only he attains the Lord's treasure.
His state and extent can be told not.
Slave Nanak, dwells upon his Lord God.
Basant 5th Guru.
Within my soul and body is the thirst for the Lord's sight.
The compassionate Guru has fulfilled my desire.
In the society of the saints, I am rid of my sins.
I reflect upon the Lord God's Name with love.
By the Guru's grace, I abide in bliss.
I enshrine the Lord's lotus feet within my heart and mind and ever, ever hear the Lord's praise. Pause.
The Omnipotent Lord is the doer of all deeds.
I, an orphan, have sought Thy refuge, O Lord.
Men and other beings have Thine support.
Showering Thy benediction, O Lord, emancipate Thou me.
God is the Destroyer of dread and the Remover of pain.
The angelic persons and silent sages perform His service.
Such is my God, in whose power are the earth and sky.
All the beings eat what Thou give them, O Lord.
My merciful Master, the searcher of hearts,
behold Thou Thy slave with Thy eye of grace.
O Lord, show Thou mercy unto me, and bless me with this bounty,
that Nanak, may live contemplating Thy Name.
Basant 5th Guru.
By the Lord's love, all the sins are washed off.
Contemplating the Lord. man comes not to grief.
Meditating on the Master of the universe, man's all darkness is dispelled.
Dwelling on God, transmigration ends.
The Lord's love is the spring season for me.
I ever associate with the saintly persons. Pause.
The saints have instructed me thus.
Blessed is the country, where abides the Lord's saint.
Wilderness is the place, where God's devotee abides not.
By the Guru's grace, realise thou the Lord in all the hearts.
Sing thou the praise of thy God, and enjoy the Nectar of His love.
O man, ever hesitate thou to commit sin.
See thou thy creator-Lord near thee,
and here and hereafter, the Lord shall arrange thy affairs.
With the Lord's lotus feet my attention is fixed.
Showering His benediction, the Lord has blest me with this gift.
I long for the dust of Thine saints feet.
Abiding ever in His presence, Nanak meditates on his Lord.
Basant 5th Guru.
My True Lord is ever brand-new.
By the Guru's grace, I ever utter His Name.
The Lord is my Protector, my Mother and Father,
through whose meditation one comes not to grief.
With single mind and even affection, I contemplate on my master.
I seek ever the refuge of my Perfect Guru and the True Lord keeps me clasped to His bosom. Pause
His slave, the Lord Himself saves.
The demons and enemies, all have grown weary of struggling with him.
Without the True Guru, there is no other place of rest,
though men may grow weary of wandering in the country and abroad, but they gather nothing but pain.
The writ of their past deeds can be erased not.
They themselves eat what they have sown.
He, the Lord, Himself is the saviour of His slave.
No one can equal the Lord's slave,
Making effort, the Lord, of Himself protects His attendant.
Such is the Lord, whose glory is unfailing and perfect.
The praise of the World-Lord sing thou ever with thy tongue.
Nanak lives by meditating on the God's feet.
Basant 5th Guru.
Contemplating the Guru's feet, one is rid of one's grief.
The Transcendent Lord has shown mercy unto me.
All my desires and tasks are accomplished.
Nanak lives by uttering the Lord's Name.
Beauteous is the season, when the Lord is meditated upon.
Without the True Guru, the world is seen wailing, The mammon-worshipper comes and goes again and again. Pause.
They alone are rich, who possess the capital of the God's Name.
Through the Guru's word, their lust and wrath are destroyed.
Their fear is dispelled and they attain to the fearless status.
Meeting with the Guru, Nanak meditates on his Lord.
The Lord abides in the saints congregation.
Contemplating, contemplating God one's hopes are fulfilled.
The Lord is contained in water, dry-land and the firmament.
Meeting with the Guru, Nanak utters the God's Name.
For him this Name is the eight supernatural powers and also the nine treasures,
who being the recipient of Thy grace receives thy Name.
O Lord, Thy slaves live by contemplating and remembering Thee.
Meeting with the Guru, O Nanak, the Heart-lotus blossoms.
Basant 5th Guru. Ik-tukey
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Contemplating the Lord, all aspirations are fulfilled,
and the mortal meets with his Lord, after a long separation.
Meditate thou on they Lord, who is worthy of meditation,
and remembering whom one enjoys peace and poise. Pause.
Showing His mercy, the. Lord beholds me with His eye of grace.
He Himself takes care of His servant.
Through the Lord's love my couch has been rendered beauteous,
and the peace-giving Lord Master has come and met me.
My merits and demerits, He has not taken into consideration,
and so Nanak ever worships the Lord's feet.
Basant 5th Guru.
Singing the Lord's praise, my sins are effaced,
and the melody of joy ever wells up within me,
My soul has flowered coming in contact with the God's feet.
The holymen have mercifully met me, and I now ever remain dyed with the love of the Lord's Name. Pause.
In His mercy, the Lord has become manifest unto my mind,
and attaching to His skirt, the Lord, Merciful to the meek, has delivered me.
This soul has become the dust of the saints' feet
and sees his Lord ever present.
My lust, wrath and craving have vanished,
and the Lord has become Merciful unto me, O Nanak,
Basant 5th Guru.
The Lord Himself has eradicated the ailments,
and patting with His hands has protected the child.
Peace, poise and pleasure ever abide in my home.
I have sought the refuge of the perfect Guru, and utter the Name of the Lord Master, who is the embodiment of emancipation. Pause.
My sorrow and suffering the Lord Himself has dispelled,
and ever, ever meditate on my Guru.
The man, who utters Thy Name,
O Lord, obtains all fruits, and becoming firm, he sings Thine praises.
Nanak, sublime is the way of the God's devotees.
Ever, ever meditate they on their peace-giving Lord.
Basant 5th Guru.
In His will, He makes him happy,
when the Lord becomes Merciful unto His servant.
The perfect Guru makes him all perfect.
He enshrines the Nectar-Name within his mind. Pause.
God has minded not my action and virtues and holding me by the arm,
has taken me across the dreadful world-ocean.
The Lord has rid me of my filth and made me pure.
I have sought the protection of the perfect Guru.
The Lord, of Himself, does and of Himself, causes everything to be done.
Showering His benediction, the Lord has emancipated Nanak.
Basant 5th Guru.
There is One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Beholding the blossom in flowers, my soul is flowering.
Abandoning and forsaking my self conceit,
I am absorbed in the Lord's lotus feet.
O fortunate one, meet thou with thy Lord.
O my soul, remember thou thy God. Pause.
The Tender trees emit abundant fragrance.
Some remain dry like wood.
The spring season has come,
and it now blossoms luxuriantly.
O the Darkage has now arrived.
Sow, sow thou the one Lord's Name.
No, it is not the season for other planting.
Wander and stray thou not in doubt.
One attains to his God, on meeting the Guru,
on whose forehead, such destiny is writ.
O my soul, this is the season to remember the Name.
Nanak utters ever the God, God, God, God's praise.
Basant 5th Guru Hindol.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Join and meet together, my brethren, dispel duality and imbibe love for your Lord.
Associate yourselves with the God's Name, O holy men, and spreading your mat, sit thereon.
In this way, throw your dice, O brothers.
By the Guru's grace, utter the Lord's Name day and night and at the last moment you shall not suffer sorrow. Pause.
Let the pious deeds be thy dice-board and make thou truth thine dice.
Conquer thou lust, wrath, avarice and worldly love, Such a game is dear unto God.
Rise thou early in the morn and take your bath, Before going to bed too, remember thou thy God.
My True Guru shall save thee from the critical tricks, and thou shall reach thy home with peace and poise.
God Himself plays, Himself watches, and of Himself the Lord has created the creation.
O slave Nanak, the man, who plays under the Guru's instruction; he return home, winning the game of life.
Basant 5th Guru Hindol.
Thou alone, O Lord, know Thy power. Ho one else knows it.
He, to whom Thou show mercy, O my love, he alone realises Thee.
Unto Thine devotees, I am a sacrifice.
Ever beauteous is Thy abode, O Lord, and infinite are Thine wondrous plays. Pause.
Thine service can be performed by Thyself alone. None else can perform it.
He alone is Thy saint, who is pleasing to Thee, and for whom Thou enshrine love.
Thou are the great Giver and, Thou are greatly Wise There is not any other like Thee.
Thou are my Omnipotent Lord. I know not how to worship Thee?
Unperceivable is Thy mansion, O my Love, and difficult it is to accept Thy will.
Says Nanak, I have fallen at Thine door, O Lord. Save Thou me, the stupid and ignorant one.
Basant Hindol 5th Guru.
Engrossed in doubt and haughty intellect, one knows not the Primal Lord, nor understands his ownself.
The Supreme God, the Lord Master, is my Father.
O God, emancipate Thou me, the meritless one. Pause.
The Lord alone creates and destroys. This is what the God's slaves think.
They who are imbued with the Love of the Lord's Name; they alone are reckoned peaceful in the Darkage.
It is through the Guru's word that one is emancipated. Nanak can think of no other way.
Rag Basant Hindol 9th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace He is attained.
O saints, know that this body is perishable.
The Lord, who abides within it; Him alone recognise thou as ever-stable. Pause.
This world is like the wealth, amassed in a dream. Why feel thou proud on beholding it?
Nothing shall go with thee, why are thou clinging to it?
Renounce both flattery and slander and enshrine God's praise in thy mind.
O slave Nanak, the unique Auspicious Lord is fully contained amongst all.
Basant 9th Guru.
Within the sinner mind abodes lust.
Therefore the mercurial mind can be restrained not. Pause.
Over all the yogis, wandering ascetics and renouncers,
this net of lust is cast.
They, who contemplate the God's Name;
they cross over the terrible world-ocean.
Servant Nanak has sought the Lord's refuge.
Bless him Thou with Thy Name, O Lord that he may continue to sing Thy praise.
Basant 9th Guru.
O mother, I have attained the wealth of God's Name.
My mind has ceased to wander, and has laid down to rest. Pause.
The love of riches has fled from my body, and the immaculate Divine knowledge has welled up within me.
Avarice and worldly love, those can touch me not. I have firmly grasped the IIIustrious Lord's meditation.
When I acquired the jewel of Name, my fear of continual births was dispelled.
My mind was rid of all desire, and I was absorbed in my own bliss.
He, unto whom God, the Treasure of compassion, becomes merciful; he alone hymns the praise of the World-Lord.
Says Nanak, some rare one gathers this sort of wealth, by the Guru's grace.
Basant 9th Guru.
O my soul, why forget thou the Lord's Name?
When the body perishes, thou shall have to deal with the death's courier. Pause.
This world is the mountain of smoke.
What thought has made thee deem it real?
Wealth, wife, property and house;
nothing shall go with thee, understand thou this.
The Lord's meditation alone shall depart with thee;
Says Nanak, remember thou Him with pure love.
Basant 9th Guru.
Attached to false avarice, why get astray thou, O man?
Nothing has been spoiled yet. Wake thou up even now. Pause.
Know thou that this world is like a dream.
It shall perish in a moment. Accept thou this as true.
God, ever abides with thee.
Night and day remember thou Him, O my friend.
At the last moment, God shall be thy succourer.
Says Nanak, sing thou the praises of Him.
Basant 1st Guru. Ashtpadis Do-tukia.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's He is obtained.
The world is like a crow that cherishes not the Lord's Name,
and forsaking the Name, falls on the bait that is sees.
The mind wabbles through evil-intent.
So I have sundered my love with the false world.
One carries the unbearable load of lust, wrath and other sins.
Without the Name, how can man obtain meritorious conduct? Pause.
That the body house is a whirlpool of sand,
and bubble that are formed when the rain falls; thou realize this.
When the Lord's wheel turns, then the human body is made from a mere bubble.
All the souls are the hand-maidens of the Lord's Name.
My great and supreme Lord has created all.
O Lord, I perform Thy service and fall at Thine feet.
Imbued with Thy Name, O Lord, I ever desire to be Thy wards.
He who departs without making manifest the Lord's Name within himself is a thief.
Gathering sins in his skirt, man loses honour.
Imbued with the True Name's love, he goes to his home with honour.
Whatever the Lord does; that is in His will.
Whosoever lives in the Lord's fear; he becomes fear-free, O my mother.
The woman desires beauteous pleasures of flesh.
Betel-leaves, flower-garland and sweet dainties lead to maladies.
The more she sports and enjoys, the more she comes to grief.
If she enters the Lord's refuge, what she wishes to do that comes to pass.
She wears robes and makes many decorations.
The body is but the dust mouled flower, and beauty leads to sins.
Hope and desire have barred the door to God.
Without the Name, forlorn is one's hearth and home.
O princess, my daughter, hasten away from here.
To embellish thine days, utter the True Name.
Leaning on His love, serve thou thy loved Lord.
By the Guru's word, abandon thou thy thirst for evil deeds.
My fascinating Lord, has fascinated my mind.
Through the Guru's word, I have recognised Thee.
Standing at Thy door, O Lord, Nanak longs for Thy vision.
I am content with Thy Name; Thou shower Thine benediction on me, O Lord!
Basant 1st Guru.
Straying in doubt, the soul comes and goes.
The greed of poisonous mammon has greatly lured it.
It is seen not fixed in the love of One Lord.
Like the fish, its neck is pierced through with the hook of worldliness.
The strayed soul is instructed through the True Name.
Then it naturally reflects on the Guru's word. Pause.
The errable mind warders like the black-bee.
In vain are the nine body apertures, if the mind greatly desires to commit sins.
The mind is entrapped like the lustful elephant.
He is tightly chained with the chains, and bears the brunt of the goad on his head.
Without the Lord's devotion, the mind is foolish like a frog.
Bereft of the Name, the mind is cursed and condemned in the Lord's court.
They, who are without the Name, have no caste and honour, and none even cares for their Name.
All the sufferings become the comrades of those who are bereft of virtues.
The mind wanders and can be stopped and restrained not.
Without being imbued with the God's elixir, it has no honour and credit.
Thou, O Lord, Thyself are the Listener and Thyself the Protector.
Upholding the earth, Thou Thyself behold and understand it.
When Thou Thyself strayest me, to whom should I go to complain.
If Thou make me meet my Guru; to him I will tell my mind's pain, O mother.
Abandoning sin, I have practised recitation of Thy virtues,
and being imbued with the Guru's word I am absorbed in the True Lord.
Meeting with the True Guru, man's intellect becomes sublime,
his mind is rendered immaculate and his ego is washed off.
He is ever emancipated, and none can bind him.
He ever utters the Name and naught else.
Man comes and goes in the God's will.
The One Lord is contained amongst all.
His writ runs over all, and everyone merges in His will.
Pain and pleasure are all in His will.
Thou are infallible, no, Thou make no error ever.
They, who hear the Guru's word, unfathomable becomes their intellect.
Thou, O Great Lord, are contained in the Guru's word.
Praising the True Lord, Nanak's mind is pleased.
Basant 1st Guru.
The one who longs for the Lord's vision;
he merges in the One alone and discards duality.
He churns the God's elixir for his feed, and his pain is dispelled.
He knows by the Guru's grace, and merges in the One Lord.
Good many men wail for Thy vision, O Lord.
Through the Guru's word, some rare one realises the Lord and blends with Him. Pause.
The Vedas narrate and say, that one should utter the One Lord's Name.
He is Illimitable, who can find His limit?
There is but One Creator, who has created the world.
without any pillar, He has supported the earth and sky.
The Divine knowledge and realisation is contained in hearing the melody of the Gurbani alone.
Immaculate is the One Lord, and ineffable is His Story.
The Name alone is the True seal of the Lord's approval.
It is through the Perfect Guru, that the Wise Lord is known.
If some one grasps this thing; there is but one religion of Truth.
By the Guru's instruction, the mortal is rendered perfect all the ages through.
One who is imbued with the incessant love of unique Limitless Lord;
by the Guru's grace, he attains unto the Unseeable and Infinite Lord.
There is but One Throne and One King.
The Absolute Lord is contained in all places.
The three worlds are creation of that sublime Lord.
He, the Formless Lord is inaccessible and Inapprehensible.
True is the Name of the unique personality.
True justice is administered there.
They, who practice truth obtain honour and become acceptable,
They are blessed with glory in the True court.
True is the devotion of One Lord, and true His love alone.
Without the Lord's fear and devotional service one comes and goes.
He who obtains understanding from the Guru, he bides like a guest in the world.
He, who is imbued with the God's elixir; that man is approved by the Lord.
I see the Lord everywhere, and naturally meditate I on Him.
Without Thee, O Lord, I love not any other.
Nanak, I have burnt my ego with the Name,
and the True Guru has shown me the True Guru has shown me the True Lord's vision.
Basant 1st Guru.
The mercurial mind can find not the Lord's limit.
In coming and going it makes not any delay.
My Creator-Lord, I am dying of immense pain.
Without my beloved, no one takes care of me.
All are sublime, whom should I call low?
Through the Lord's meditation and the True Name, I am satiated. Pause.
I have grown weary of treating myself with many medicines.
How can the disease be eradicated without my Guru?
Without the Lord's love-worship, Many miseries befall the mortal.
My Lord is the Giver of pain and pleasure.
Acute is my malady. How shall I comfort myself?
He, who knows the malady; he alone can rid me of the pain,
Within my mind and body are the demerits.
Searching and seeking I met with my Guru, O brother.
The Guru's word and the God's Name are the penacea of all ills.
As Thou keep me, O Lord, so do I live,
The whole world itself is sick, thus whom should I seek and search to cure me?
Immaculate is my God and Immaculate is His Name.
One who sees and shows the Lord's abode in very mind;
he the Guru, ushers the bride into her Lord's presence.
Their soul stays within their soul and attention within their attention,
such are the detached men of God.
They remain free of desire of weal and woe,
and tasting Nectar abide in the Lord's Name.
They recognise themselves and remain attuned to the Lord.
They win the battle of life and their pain hastens away through the Guru's instruction.
I in-drink the Nectar of truth; that the Guru has given me,
and easily dying to myself, live I the true life.
If the Guru so wills, Thou, O Lord protect me as Thy own.
He, who becomes Thine, merges in Thee, O Lord.
An agnosing ailment overtakes the lustful man.
The Lord is seen pervading all the hearts.
Through the Guru's instruction, one remains detached from pleasure and pain,
O Nanak, who with hearty love, contemplates his Lord.
Basant 1st Guru. Ik-tukia.
O blind man, pride thou not on besmearing thy body with ashes.
This wise, O naked man, thou shall unite not with thy Lord.
O feel why has thou forgotten the Lord's Name?
At the last moment, it shall be of avail to thee. Pause.
Consulting the Guru, reflect thou on the Name.
Wherever I see, I see the Lord of the earth there.
What can I say, when I myself am nothing?
All my caste and honour are through Thy Name.
Why take thou pride on beholding thine property and wealth?
Nothing shall be thine at the time of departure.
Subdue thou thy five demons, and keep thy mind in its place.
This alone is the foundation of the way to union with God.
Thy mind is tethered with the chains of ego (within they mind is the hopper of pride)
O blockhead, thou remember not thy God, by which thou can be emancipated.
Forget thou not the Lord, otherwise thou shall fall in the clutches of Yama.
At the last moment, O unwise man, thou shall bear the blows.
Reflecting on the Guru's word, thy ego shall be stilled,
and the 'True Yog shall come and abide within thy mind.
Thou remember not Him, who has blessed thee with soul and body.
O unwise man, abiding at graveyards and cremation grounds union with God is obtained not.
Nanak utters the meritorious and sublime Gurbani.
See thou with thine eyes and realise its worth.
Basant 1st Guru.
Through duality and evil-intellect the mortal does blind deeds.
The egocentric wanders in darkness.
The blind man follows the blind counsel.
Without going the Guru's way, one's doubt is dispelled not. Pause.
The wayward person is blind and likes not the Guru's instruction.
He has become a beast and is rid not of his self-conceit.
God has created eighty four Lakh species of beings.
In His will my Lord creates and destroys them.
Everyone, who owns not the Name and good conduct goes astray.
He alone is instructed, whom the Guru-God blesses.
The Guru's servants are pleasing to the Lord.
Them the Lord forgives and for them the fear of Death's courier is no more.
They who heartily love the One Lord;
dispelling their doubt, the Lord unites them with Himself.
Fear-free, Limitless and Infinite is the Lord.
He, the Creator is pleased with truth.
O Nanak, the Guru instructs the erring one,
and enshrining truth within him, shows him the Unique Lord.
Basant 1st Guru.
Lord Himself is the bumblebee, the flower and the creeper,
and He Himself unites man with society of the Guru, the friend.
O bumble-bee, suck thou such fragrance,
by which the trees may flower and the woods may reverdure. Pause.
The Lord Himself is the Lakhshmi and Himself her Spouse.
Installing the world, He Himself enjoys it.
God Himself is the calf, cow and the milk.
He Himself is the support of the body mansion.
He Himself is the Deed and the Doer,
and Himself booming the Guru-ward reflects upon Himself.
Creating the world, Thou behold it, O my Creator-Lord.
Thou give support to the light of the numberless beings.
Thou, O Lord, are like the ocean of unfathomable virtues.
Thou are the Unknowable and Immaculate most sublime jewel.
Thou Thyself are the Creator, potent to do anything,
and the independent King whose subjects are in peace.
Nanak is satiated with the relish of the Lord's Name.
Vain is one's life without the beloved Guru-God.
Basant Hindol. 1st Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
Establishing the nine regions, seven continents, fourteen worlds three qualities, four ages and the four sources of creation, the Lord has seated them all in His mansion.
He put the four lamps one by one into the hands of the four ages.
O my merciful Master, the slayer of Madh demon and the Lord of Lakhshmi, such is Thine power. Pause.
The fire in every home is Thy army and righteousness exercises chieftainship.
The earth is Thy big cooking-pot and the being receive it but once. Destiny is Thy store-keeper.
Becoming non-content, man begs again and the mercurial mind humiliates him.
Avarice is the dark dungeon and the demerits are the fetters on the feet.
Wealth ever beats the soul with its mallet and sin does the duty of a police officer.
Whether good, whether bad; the man is, as Thou look upon him, O Lord.
The Primal Lord is called Allah, The Turn the Muslim divines has come.
Tax is levied on the temples of goods Such a practice has come into vogue.
The ablution-pots, calls to prayer, prayers and prayer-carpets are seen everywhere and the Lord appears in blue form.
In every house all the persons say 'Mian', your language has become different, O men.
If Thou, O Lord, wish to appoint Mir Babar the King of earth; what power have I to challenge it?
In the four directions the mortals make Thee obeisance and in every house Thine praises are sung, O Lord.
The profit, which is obtained as wages from pilgrimages to shrines, reading of Simritis, and giving of alms and charities,
is gained in a moment by remembering the glory-bestowing Name, O Nanak!
Basant Hindol. 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Within the township of the body abides a child, who rests not even for a trice and a moment.
I have grown weary of making various efforts and endeavours, but it wanders incessantly.
O my Master, bring the child mind to the home of Oneness.
If man meets the True Guru, then obtains he the Perfect Lord. Contemplating the Lord, he becomes renowned. Pause.
These bodies of all the men are like the dead corpses, in which the Lord's Name abides not.
When the Guru made man taste the water the Guru made man taste the water of the Lord's Name, he enjoyed it and flowered again.
I have examined, examined and searched my entire body, and the supreme Guru, has shown me a wondrous spectacle.
All the mammon-worshipers perished by searching without, but I, by the Guru's instruction found he Lord within my home.
The Lord has become compassionate to the meekest of the meek like Krishana, who went to Bidur's house.
Embracing love for him, Sudama met Krishana, upon which Krishana shattered and removed his poverty by sending everything before his arrival at home.
Great is the glory of the Lord's Name, My Lord, of Himself, has enshrined it within me,
Even if all the apostates practise slandering me, it diminishes not even by a trice and an iota.
The Lord's Name is His slave's praise, by which he attains honour in ten directions.
The slanderers and mammon worshipper can endure it not even a bit. They set fire to their own house.
The saint meeting with the saint gathers glory and reflecting on the Lord's virtues, their virtues becomes manifest.
My Lords slaves, who are the servants of His servants, are dear and sweet unto Him.
The Infinite Creator is Himself the life's water and Himself unites one in His union.
As water blends with water, so does the supreme Guru, unite the mortal with the Lord.
Basant 5th Guru. Do-tukas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Hear, O mind, the stories of the saints and contemplate thou thy Lord with love.
Ajamal was delivered, uttering the Lord's Name but once.
Balmik obtained the society of the saints.
The Lord met Dhru unhesitatingly.
I ask for the dust of Thine saints' feet, O Lord,
mercifully, Thou bless me with it, that obtaining it, I may apply it to my forehead. Pause.
Uttering the Lord's Name, like her parrot, the prostitute was emancipated.
The great elephant remembered. God and He did deliver him.
He rid Brahman Sudama of his poverty.
O my mind, thou too meditate on the Lord.
The hunter who struck Krishana with an arrow was delivered.
Placing the foot on the thumb, the hunch-back was saved.
Bidur was redeemed through the servants sentiments.
O my soul, thou too contemplate thy God.
God, of Himself, saved the honour of Prahlad.
When being disrobed, the Lord preserved Daropadi's honour.
They, who remembered God, at the last moment; all of them were saved.
Serve Thou the Lord, O my soul, that thou too may cross over.
Dhanna served God, through the innocence of a child.
Meeting with the Guru, Tirlochan attained perfection.
The Guru blessed Baini with the Divine light.
O my mind, be thou too the Lord's servant.
Jaidev abandoned his self-conceit.
Through service, Sain, the barber, was saved.
My mind, wavers and wabbles not, nor does it go anywhere.
O my soul, thou too shall cross over. Seek thou the Lord's protection.
They, to whom Thou Thyself show mercy, O Lord,
Thou Thyself emancipate those saints.
Their merits and demerits, Thou, O Lord, takes not into account.
Seeing these ways of Thine, my mind is dedicated to Thy service.
Kabir contemplated, God attuned to His love with single mind.
Namdev abided with the Sire Master.
Ravidass meditated on the beauteous Lord.
Guru Nanak Dev is the very embodiment of the Master of the universe.
Basant 5th Guru.
For many births, the mortal wandered in the existences.
Without God's meditation he falls into hell.
Without the Lord's devotion one is cut into bite.
Without realisation of the Lord, one is punished by Yama.
O my friend, ever remember thou thy Lord,
and embrace thou ever love for the True Name. Pause.
By no avocation, contentment comes to one.
All the makes of wealth are the clouds of smoke.
One shirks not from committing sins.
Intoxicated with poison, one comes and goes.
Practising ego and pride evils increase ever.
In worldly love and greed the world is drowned.
Lust and wrath sway man's mind.
Even in dream, he utters not the Lord's Name.
Sometimes one is a king and sometimes a beggar.
To pain and pleasure the world is bound.
To emancipate himself man makes no preparation.
The fetters of sin, ever continue loading him.
Man has no loved friend an comrade.
He Himself sows and Himself eats.
The goods amassing which sins well up;
leaving them off, the ignorant one departs in a moment.
One greatly wanders in the love of riches.
He does deeds as is the writ of his past actions.
The Creator, of Himself remains detached.
Virtue and sin affect not the Lord.
Save Thou me, O Merciful Master of the world.
O my perfectly compassionate Lord, I have sought Thine refuge.
Without Thee, I have, no other place of rest.
Show Thou mercy unto me and bless me with Thy Name.
O Lord, Thou are the Creator and Thou the Doer.
Thou, Thou are high and greatly Infinite.
Mercifully attach me to Thy skirt, O Lord.
Slave Nanak has entered Thy sanctuary, O Lord.
Var of Basant. 5th Guru.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
Contemplating God's Name, flower thou, O my brother.
In accordance with the writ of destiny, thou are blessed with this beauteous season.
Obtaining the ambrosial fruit of the Name the woods, grass and the three worlds have bloomed.
Meeting with the saints bliss wells up and all the darkness of sins is dispelled.
Nanak utters but the One Lord's Name, and he shall wander not in existences again.
Obtaining the support of the True Name, I have chained the five very powerful demons.
Standing within my mind, the Lord has made me meditate on His feet.
I am rid of all the ailments and sorrow, and am ever hale and hearty.
Contemplating the Lord's Name day and night I shall die not again.
O Nanak, I have ultimately become He, from whom I had issued forth.
Where from springs the man, where lives he, and in what does he merge?
Men and all other beings belong to the Lord. Who can appraise their worth?
Beauteous are the saints, who ever utter, contemplate and hear the Lord's Name.
Inaccessible and Inapprehensible is the Lord. None else can equal Him.
The perfect Guru has instructed Nanak in Truth and this is what he preaches into the world.
Basant Hymns of the saints. kabir Ji.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The earth is in bloom, and in bloom is the sky.
Every heart has flowered by the Lord's Light.
My Lord, the King, is rejoicing in endless ways.
Whithersoever I see, thither He is contained. Pause.
The four Vadas rejoice in duality.
So are rejoicing the Simritis, together with the Muslim religious books.
Shiva is blossoming in the yoga contemplation.
Kabir's Lord blooms amongst all alike.
The learned Brahmans are intoxicated reading the Puranas.
The yogis are intoxicated in practising Yoga.
The secitarians are inebriated in the mysteries of self-conceit.
The penitents are inebriated in the mysteries of penances.
All are intoxicated with ego. No one is awake.
The thieves, who are with them are blundering their home. Pause.
Awake are Sukh Dev and Akrur.
Awake is Hanuman with his tail.
Awake is Shiva, who serves the Lord's feet.
In the Darkage, awake are Namdev and Jaidav.
There are several sorts of waking and sleeping.
He who remains awake under the Guru's instruction, is the most sublime.
The most efficacious deed of this body is this,
that man may contemplate the Lord's Name, Says Kabir.
The wife gives birth to her husband.
The son makes his father play.
The woman without breasts, suckles milk.
See, O people the influence of the Darkage.
The son takes his mother in marriage. Pause.
A man without feet take a leap.
A man without mouth bursts into laughter.
Without sleep one lies down and sleeps.
Without a vessel one churns milk.
A cow without teats gives milk.
A long journey is accomplished without travelling.
Without the True Guru path is found not.
This is there wisdom which Kabir utters.
Prahlad was sent to the school.
He took many children with him as his associates.
(He said to his teacher) "Why teach thou me the worldly entanglements?
On my tablet write thou the Name of the Sire Lord".
O sire, I shall abandon not the Lord's Name.
I have no concern with any other instruction. Pause.
Sanda and Marka went and complained to the king.
He sent for Prahlad telling the messenger to ask Prahlad to quickly run to him.
Harnakhsh said to Prahlad, "Abandon thou the habit of uttering the Lord's Name".
I shall release thee all at once, If thou obey my words.
Prahlad replied, "why do you annoy me over and over again?"
The Lord has made water, dry land, hills and the mountains.
I shall leave not the one Lord, as this wise I shall be a sinner.
I shall worship the One Lord, even if thou throw me in fire or kill me.
The king became angry and flying into rage he unsheathed his sword,
and said. "show me thou, where thy Protector is?"
Assuming a big form the Lord emerged out of the pillar.
He killed Harnakhash by tearing him with His nails,
He the supreme Lord, the God of gods,
for the love of His saint, assumed the wondrous form of the Man-lion.
Says Kabir, no one can know the Lord's limit.
He saved saints like Prahlad many times.
Within this body and mind, lives the cupid, the god of lust,
who has stolen my jewel of Divine knowledge.
I am an orphan, O Lord. To whom should I make my complaint?
Who, who has not been ruined by lust?
what am I before it? O my Lord, this terrible pain, I can endure not.
What power has my mercurial mind against cupid? Pause.
Sanak, Sanadan, Shiva, Sukdev;
Brahma, who is born out of the naval lotus,
poetical persons, yogis and the wearers of matted hair,
all passed their life with watchfulness.
Thou, O Lord, are unfathomable, I can know not Thine depth.
O Lord, the Master of the meek to whom else should I tell my woes?
My Master, rid Thou me of the pain of birth and death, and bless of birth and death, and bless me with peace.
Kabir utters the praises of God, the ocean of bliss.
There is but one banker and the five traders,
who take with them the false wares on twenty five oxen.
There are ten bags and nine poles to lift them.
That body is bound with seventy two ropes.
I have no concern with such commerce.
By which my capitals lessened and interest ever increases. Pause.
I have trafficked by joining the seven threads.
With them I have united good deeds and the Lord's love.
The Three tax-gatherers wrangle with me,
Ultimately the trader departs empty-handed.
The capital is exhausted and the trade is ruined.
The caravan is scattered in ten directions.
Says Kabir, O man, if thou merge in the Lord,
thy task shall be accomplished and then thy doubt shall flee.
Basant Hindol.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The mother is impure, the father too is impure and, the father too is impure and impure are the fruits which they bear.
Impure they come, impure they go as well, and the unfortunate ones die in impurity.
O Pandit, tell me which place is contaminated not,
where I may sit and take my food. Pause.
The tongue is filthy, and ears and eyes too are filthy.
The impurity of the sexual organ departs not, Thou are burnt down with the Brahmnical fire.
Fire is also impure, water is impure and impure is the place where thou sit and cook.
Impure is the ladle within which the food is served, and impure is the one who sits to eat.
Impure is dung, impure the lines that mark it off.
Says Kabir only those men are immaculate who have obtained true understanding.
Rama Nand Ji.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O whither should I go There is bliss in my very home.
My mind now wanders not. This mind has become a cripple. Pause.
One day in my mind welled up a desire.
I ground sandal-wood and took distilled aloe-wood and many perfumes.
I proceeded to the Lord's place (temple) to worship Him.
That Lord, the Guru showed me within my mind.
Wherever I go, I find water and stones there.
Thou, O Lord, are equally contained in everything.
The Vedas and Puranas all I have seen and searched.
I may go there only then if the Lord be not here.
My True Guru, a sacrifice am I Unto thee.
Who has cut away all my perplexities and doubts.
Rama Nand's Master is the all-pervading Lord.
The Guru's word, destroys millions of misdeeds.
Basant. Hymns of Nam Dev Ji.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
If the servant runs away when his master is in trouble,
he lives not for long time and brings shame to both his father's and mother's family.
I shall abandon not Thy meditation, O Lord, even though men may laugh at me.
The Lord's lotus feet abide within my mind. Pause.
As the mortal accepts death for the sake of his wealth,
so does the holy man relinquish not the Lord's Name.
Pilgrimages to the Ganges, Gaya and Godawari are the affairs of worldly men.
If the Lord be pleased with Nama, then alone he shall be His true slave.
The great waves of avarice incessantly resound. My body is drowning therein, O my Lord.
Ferry me across the world ocean, O the World-Lord! Ferry me across, O my loved father! Pause.
In this storm, I can steer not the ship. Thou yonder shore, I can find not O my Love.
Be Thou merciful and lead Thou me to the True Guru, and ferry me across, O Beautifully-haired Lord!
Says Nama, I know not how to swim, give Thou me Thy arm, give me Thy arm, O my Beloved!
At first the dust laden body cart moves slowly.
Afterwards, when taking the stick of the Name it is driven forward,
then it runs like the cow-dung-pill pushed on the Grass-hopper.
The loved soul goes to the tank for washing. Pause.
There the Guru, the washer-man, imbued with the Lord's love washes the soul.
My mind is dyed with the God's feet's love.
Says Namdev "O Lord, Thou are pervading everywhere.
Take Thou pity on Thy saint".
Basant. Hymns of Ravidass Ji.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Thou know not any thing, O man.
Beholding thy dress thou pride on Thyself.
The proud bride finds no place in her Lord's presence.
Over thy neck caws the crow of death.
Why take thou pride, O demented bride?
Like the big mushroom of the month of Bhadon; thou are much more short-lived than even that. Pause.
As the deer knows not this secret,
that the fragrance of musk is within his body and he searches for it elsewhere, similarly the Lord is within the mortal.
Whosoever understands his body;
him the death's courier humiliates not.
Man prides on his sons and wife,
but it is from him that the Lord shall take an account.
Man suffers pain for the wrought deeds.
Whom shall thou, O man, afterwards address as O dear one, O dear one, save me Thou?
If thou seek the refuge of the saint,
then they sins, even though millions upon millions shall all be erased.
Says Ravidass, he who utters the Lord's Name;
he has no concern with caste, birth and existences.
Basant Kabir Ji.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Thy gait is like that of a cow, o man.
The hair over thy tail are shiny.
Search for and eat anything that is in this house.
Go thou not to any other house. Pause.
Thou like the hand-mill and eat the flour.
Whither take thou the rag of the hand-mill.
Thou has fixed a great gaze on the handing basket.
Take care that a stick or a staff falls not on thy back.
Says Kabir, thou has indulged over much in sexual pleasures, O man.
Beware, lest some one throws a brick or clod at thee.
Rag Sarang. Chaupadas. 1st Guru.
There is but One God. True is His Name, Creative His personality, and immortal His form. He is without fear, sans enmity, unborn and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace, He is obtained.
I am the hand-maiden of my Lord.
I have grasped the feet of my Lord, the life of the world, who has killed and finished my self-conceit. Pause.
The Omnipresent, Embodiment of supreme light and darling supreme Lord, is my very life.
The Fascinating Lord has fascinated my mind and reflecting on the Guru's word, it understands its Lord.
Trifling and spurious is the understanding of the worthless way-ward person. His mind and bodily frame are gripped by pain.
Since the time, I am imbued with the love of the beauteous Lord, my mind is comforted contemplating my Master.
Abandoning ego, when woman becomes detached then enters the true understanding in her mind.
Her soul is pleased with the Casteless Pure Lord and she shakes off people's esteem.
There is no one like Thee in the past and future, O my Loved Lord, the prop of my very life.
Nanak, she alone is the true bride who has the God Lord as her spouse, and who is imbued with His Name.
Sarang 1st Guru.
How can I live without my God? Without God I am afflicted by pain.
The tongue is tasteless. Trivial it is without the Lord's elixir. Without the Lord, death agonises the mortal. Pause.
As long as I obtain not the vision of my Beloved, so long I remain hungry and thirsty.
Seeing the sight of my love my mind is pleased like the blossoming of the lotus with joy in water,
When the low clouds thunder and burst, the cuckoos, the peacocks, the trees, the bulls, the birds and the snakes are filled with love.
So does, the chaste bride when her spouse is back home.
Unclean, unlovely, unwomanly and ill-conducted is the wife, who understands not her husband's disposition.
The evil-intellected bride, whose tongue is satiated not with the love of her God's elixir, remains engrossed in misery.
The chaste bride comes and goes not, nor suffers she sorrow, nor any ailment agonises her body.
Nanak, her Lord naturally embellishes her, and seeing her Lord her mind is comforted.
Sarang 1st Guru.
My Loved Lord is not far-off.
With the True Guru's word, my mind is satisfied and I have obtained God, the support of my vital breath.
O bride, this-wise God, the Spouse is met blest is the bride, who is dear unto her Groom.
Contemplating the Name by the Guru's instruction, one is rid of caste, race, lineage and doubt.
He, whose mind is satiated, is rid of self conceit and he abandons cruelness and covetousness.
The Groom's bride effortlessly enjoys her Groom and by the Guru's grace is embellished with His love.
Burn thou such love of family and kinsmen which increases the love of mammon.
He, whose mind relishes not the Lord's Love; through worldly love, he does evil deeds.
The Beloved's sweetheart, within whose mind is the priceless gem of Lord's love, remains not hid.
Nanak, by the Guru's grace, she keeps enshrined in her mind, the Lord's invaluable Name, all the ages through.
Sarang 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
I am the dust of the feet of the Lord's saints.
Associating with the society of saints, I have obtained the supreme status. The Divine soul is fully-filling all. Pause.
Meeting with the saintly True Guru, man is tranquillised and all his sins and sufferings are blotted off.
His soul's Light shines forth, and he sees the presence of the Immaculate Lord.
By great good fortune, I have obtained the society of saints and the Lord God's Name has fully-filled me.
Bathing in the dust of the feet of the society of saints, includes the ablution at the sixty-eight holies.
Filthy and shallow is the mind of the evil-intellected sinner. His impure heart is attained to worldly love and falsehood.
Without destiny, how can the society of saints be attained? Engrossed in ego, man ever repents.
Be Thou compassionate, O Sire Master, and show mercy unto me. I ask for the dust of the feet of the saints' congregation.
Nanak, meeting with the saints one attains unto the Lord, The Lord's slave obtains the presence of the Lord God.
Sarang 4th Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto the Lord's feet.
The dreadful world ocean can be crossed not. Uttering God's Name, the mortal is ferried across. Pause.
When faith in the Lord welled up within my heart, then my mind, became dedicated to His service and meditation.
Night and day in thy mind, utter thou the Lord's Name, which is All meritorious
The Inaccessible, Inapprehensible, Invisible and Infinite Lord is contained in the mind, body and all the places.
When the Guru becomes merciful then is the Unseeable Lord seen and obtained within the mind.
Within the mind is the God's Name, the mainstay of the entire earth, but to the proud worshipper of mammon, it seems far.
His burning desire is quenched not ever, and his life game he loses in gamble.
He, unto whom the Guru shows even a particle of his grace, sings God's praise, upstanding and downsitting.
Nanak, they on whom the Lord casts His merciful glance; their honour He, of Himself, saves.
Sarang 4th Guru.
O Lord God, my Beloved, bless Thou me with Thine Nectar Name.
They with whom the mind of the Supreme Guru, is pleased; their tasks are accomplished. Pause.
The Persons, who become humble before the Guru; their sufferings the Guru dispels.
Night and day they serve before the Guru and are embellished with the Guru's word.
Within their mind is the immortalising Name-Nectar. With their tongue, they hymn the praise of the Name-Nectar, and it is the Name-Nectar, the they reflect upon.
Realising the immortalising Name-Nectar, by the Guru's grace, they obtain the door of salvation.
Moveless is the Divine True Guru; leaning on the Lord's Name, whose mind has become stable and stationary.
Before him tender I my soul. Unto the True Guru, I am a sacrifice.
Deluded by doubt, the egocentrics are attached to duality and within them is the darkness of spiritual ignorance.
The beneficent True Guru, they see not. They remain even in midstream, neither on this shore, nor on the yonder one.
The Omnipotent Lord is exercising His power. He is pervading all and every heart.
Says Nanak, the slave of the Lord's slaves, "Mercifully emancipate Thou me, O Lord".
Sarang 5th Guru.
Serve thou thy Lord this wise,
that whatever He does, accept that as true, and by the Guru's grace, remain thou merged in the love of His Name. Pause.
Exceedingly sweet is the love of the World-Lord, that one forgets all other loves.
Night and day he abides in bliss, his soul is propitiated and his light merges in the Supreme Light.
When man sings God's praise, then is his soul satiated, and peace comes to bide within his mind.
When the Guru becomes merciful, then alone man mind with the Lord's feet.
Contemplating God; man's intellect is illumined and he is attuned to the quintessence of divine knowledge.
When Divine Light shines within the mortal, then his soul is comforted and he rests in the Divine trance of equipoise.
He within whose mind is guile, notwithstanding preaching the God's Name with his mouth, he ever practises guile.
Within him is the great darkness of greed, and pounding husk, he suffers sorrow.
When my Lord is mightily pleased, the mortal is attuned to the supreme Guru.
Nanak has obtained the Name of the Immaculate Lord and contemplating the Name he is blessed with peace.
Sarang 4th Guru.
My mind and heart are pleased with the Lord's Name.
The True Guru has imbued my mind with the Lord's love and to my soul the Lord God's gospel is pleasing. Pause.
O Lord, be Thou merciful to me, the poor man, and bless Thy slave with Thine ineffable Divine discourse.
Meeting with the pious persons, I have attained the God's elixir, and now God seems sweet to my mind and body.
They alone remain detached, who are imbued with the Lord's love, and by the Guru's instruction, they realise the Name.
Meeting with the Lord, man obtains peace, and his comings and goings are all ended.
With my eyes I see my Lord Master with love and with my tongue, utter I His Name.
With mine ears, day and night, I hear His praise, and my Lord Master love I heartily.
When by the Guru's grace, I overwhelmed the five demons then was I attached to the Name in supreme bliss.
God showered His benediction on His slave Nanak, and he got merged in Lord God's Name.
Sarang 4th Guru.
O man, repeat and read thou the Lord's sublime Name.
Without the Lord's Name, nothing is stable and in vain are all other ostentations. Pause.
What is one to accept and what to reject, O mad man, When whatever is seen, that all is but ashes.
The poison, which thou deem as thy own; that thou shall leave off and shall carry the load of sins on thy head.
Trice by trice and moment by moment age decreases, and the unwise man can understand it not.
That alone he does, which goes not with him. This is the conduct of the mammon-worshipper.
Meet thou with the saints, O mad man, then alone shall thou obtain the door of salvation.
Without the society of saints no one obtains peace. Go and consult thou the knower of the Vedas.
The king and the noble shall all depart, leaving off the false expanses.
Nanak, the saint whose mainstay is the Lord's Name is ever-stable and moveless.
Sarang 4th Guru. Dupada.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Why, O son, quarrel thou with thy father?
It is a sin to quarrel with him who begot thee and brought thee up. Pause.
The wealth, of which thou take pride, that wealth is of no one's own.
In an instant thou shall leave off the revelments of sin, and then shall thou grieve.
He, who is thy Lord and Master; of that God, utter thou the Name.
Servant Nanak gives thee instruction. If thou hear it, then shall thou rid of the calamity.
Sarang 4th Guru. Dupadas Partal.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my soul, contemplate thou on God, the Lord of the world, the Master of the Universe and the very life of creation. I have imbibed love with God, the heart bewitcher. The whole day and the whole night lean I on the Master, the Master, my Master. Pause.
Innumerable, innumerable, innumerable are the praises of God. Sukhdev, Narad and gods like Brahma sing His praise. Thine virtues, O Lord, can be counted not.
Thou, O God are infinite, Thou, O Lord, are Infinite Thou, O God Lord, of Thyself, know Thine ways.
God's men who abide near God, near God; they alone are the saints and God's devotees.
Those slaves of God, O servant Nanak, meet with their God, as water mingles with water.
Sarang 4th Guru.
O my soul, contemplate thou thy Lord, the Man-lion, the Man-lion. God is the Lord of all the gods Utter thou the Name of the Reverend Lord Master God, my Beloved. Pause.
The house, in which praises are sung, God's praises are sung, the Lord's praises are sung; in that house ring the melodies of the five musical instruments. Great destiny is writ on the forehead of him who abides in such a home.
Of that man all the sins are effaced, all the evils are effaced, and Lust wrath, avarice, worldly love and ego are effaced. Of that man the Lord drives out the five thrives.
Utter the Lord's Name, O God's saints. Meditate on the Lord of the World, O God's holymen. In thought, word and deed contemplate ye your Lord God, O God's holymen.
Utter thou Thy Lord's Name, utter thou thy Lord's Name, and it shall rid thee of all thine sins.
Ever, ever remain thou awake. Remembering the Lord of the universe, ever, ever abide thou in bless.
Says slave Nanak, O Lord, Thy saint obtains the heart-desired fruits, all the fruits, and obtains also the four cardinal boons of righteousness, riches, success and emancipation.
Sarang 4th Guru.
O my soul, meditate thou on God, the Lord of wealth, the lover of Nectar and the Regarder of eminence. The Transcendent Lord, the True Transcendent Lord Master is the inner-knower.
Sing thou the praise of the Loved Lord, who is the Destroyer of all sufferings and the Blesser of all comforts. Pause.
God abides in every mind, heart and body. God Lord abides in oceans and dry lands, and God abides in spaces and inter-spaces. I have a yearning to see my God.
Let some saint, God's holyman and my loved holy man come and show me the way to my God.
I would rub, wash and bathe the feet of that man.
God's man meets with God, meets with God through faith, and meets with God, by the Guru's Grace.
My mind and body are in bliss, for I have seen my God, the King.
Slave Nanak is blessed with grace, is blessed with the grace, and is blessed with the grace of the World-Lord.
Night and day, ever, ever, ever meditate I on my Lord and my Lord's Name.
Sarang 4th Guru.
O my soul, contemplate thou the Fear-free Lord,
who is True, True-ever True,
He is sans enmity, the being beyond time,
unborn and self-illumined.
O my mind, night and day, meditate thou on thy Formless and self sustained Lord. Pause.
For God's vision, for God's vision, for God's vision, thirty-three crores of gods, and millions of adepts, celibates and yogi walk on the banks of holies and practice fasting.
Acceptable is rendered the service of those mortals, unto whom the Lord of woods becomes merciful.
They alone are the good saints and sublime and holy devotees of God, who are pleasing to their God's Lord, the Enemy of ego.
They, whose side my Lord God takes; O Nanak, He saves the honour of them.
Sarang 4th Guru Partal
O man, contemplate thou, the Lord, God Lord, who is the Treasure of virtues and the Master of the entire universe. O my soul, utter thou the Name of God, the Imperishable God Lord. Pause.
God, God, God, God's Name is Nectar. He alone drink.
Showing His mercy, he whom the Merciful Master, of Himself, makes meet the True Guru; that man tastes the Name-Nectar of the Lord God.
The persons, who ever, ever, ever serve my Lord Master; their distress, doubt and dread are all dispelled.
If slave Nanak utters the Name, then alone lives he, as the pied cuckoo is satiated by in-drinking the water.
Sarang 4th Guru.
O man, contemplate thou thy Revered Lord.
The Lord, my Lord is pervading all.
True, ever true is My Master.
O brother utter thou ever the Lord Master's Name, who is pervading every. Pause.
All alone, the Lord Himself is the Creator of all, All alone, the Lord, of Himself is permeating the whole world.
He, on whom my Lord, Lord, Lord, the king, Himself showers His benediction; that man is attuned to the Lord's Name.
O saints of God, see ye the glory of the Lord's Name, that saves the honour of devoted persons in the fire of the Darkage.
My Lord, the king, has taken the side of slave Nanak, all his enemies and evil-wishers have run away.
Sarang 5th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
I am a sacrifice unto the True Guru's vision.
Within my mind is the thirst like that of the pied-cuckoo for water, when shall I have the fruitful vision of the True Guru? Pause.
He is the Patron of the patronless and the Cherisher of all, The Lover of His devotees is the God's Name.
He, whom no mortal can protect, him Thou, O Lord, bless with Thine support.
Thou, O Lord, are the support of the supportless. emancipation of the unemancipated, and the abode of the abodeless.
In the ten directions, wherever I go, there Thou are with me. I do the only deed of singing Thine praises, O Lord.
Thou, the One, become many and from many the One again. Thine state and extent I can utter not.
Thou are Infinite. Thy worth can be appraised not. All that I see is but Thy play, O Lord.
I associate with the saints and converse with the saints. To the God's saints bear I love.
By the Guru's instruction, slave Nanak has obtained his Lord. My God bless Thou me with Thy vision for my mind yearns for it.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O man, know thou the Sire Lord is the Searcher of hearts.
Hiding from man, thou do evil, but like the air, the Lord is present every where. Pause.
Thou call thyself a disciple of Vision, and practise six rituals, but within thee is the impurity of covetousness.
They, who slander the society of the saints; are all drowned in spiritual darkness.
Man eats self-cooked food, but he steals other's wealth and within him is falsehood and self-conceit.
He knows not the way of the Vedas and the Shastras and is perturbed with his mind's pride.
His saying of evening-time prayers and observance of all fasts, are like the false show of a conjurer.
Straying him, the Lord has but him on the path of wilderness. Vain are all his deeds.
He alone is the diving and he alone the Vaishnav and the scholar, on whom is the mercy of the Lord.
Serving the True Guru, he obtains the supreme status and with him the entire world is saved.
What should I utter? I know naught to utter. As the Lord will, so He makes me utter.
I ask for only the dust of the saint's congregation. Slave Nanak has sought Thy protection, O Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My dancing is now ended.
I have easily obtained my sportive Beloved. By The Guru's word, have I found Him. Pause.
As a virgin girl laughingly talks about her spouse with her mates,
but when the good spouse comes into her home, then she shows shyness, and covers her face.
As gold put and heated in a crucible wanders about madly,
but when it becomes cent per cent pure, then it becomes stationary at a place.
As long as the striker is present, till then day and night, the gang of life rings every hour, every ghari and every moment,
but when he gets up and departs, then there is no ringing again.
As a pitcher filled with water is brought, then that water seems different and distinct,
but, says Nanak, when the pitcher is emptied into the water, the water mingles with the water.
Sarang 5th Guru.
If questioned, what can man say now?
He was to gather the sublime and delicious Name-Nectar, but the crazy one is involved with the poison. Pause.
The invaluable human birth is attained after a long interval, but it is going in exchange for a shell.
The mortal comes to buy musk, but he loads dust and the thistle-grass.
He comes in search of profit, but is entangled in the optical illusion of mammon.
He loses the jewel in exchange for glass. When shall this opportunity come to him again?
In him are all the sins and not even one virtue, Forsaking his Lord, he thinks of His slave.
When death's silence like that of the dead matter comes, man's plight becomes like that of the thief caught at the door of the digging.
I see the refuge of God's slaves. I see not any other way out.
Says Nanak, then alone is the mortal released, if he obliterates all the sins.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my mother, my fortitude is gone. I am greatly in love with my spouse.
O there are numberless kinds of beauteous revelments, but with them I am attuned not. Pause.
Beloved, my Beloved, utter I with my mouth night and day. I sleep not even for a moment and keep awake.
O' necklace, collyrium, raiments, and many spouse decorations; without my spouse all appear to as poison.
Like a meek one, ask, ask I, "Let some one tell me the country of my loved spouse".
I surrender my heart to him, tender all my soul and body too, and bow at the feet of,
that priceless. slave of God, and supplicate him to bless me with the society of the saints.
O God's slave, show thou mercy unto me, and make me meet my Lord, that I may behold His vision every moment.
When my Lord shows mercy, then comes He within me and night and day my soul remains calm and comforted.
Says Nanak, I now sing the songs of joy with love and within me resounds the celestial strain.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my mother, True, True, True is God, and true, true, true is His saint.
The word, which the Perfect Guru has uttered; that I have firmly tied to my skirt. Pause.
Night, day and the stars shall perish, and so shall perish sun and the moon.
The mountains, the earth, the water, and the air shall pass away. Only the saint's word is infallible.
Egg-born shall die, the foetus born shall die, and so shall die the earth born and sweat-born.
The four Vedas shall perish, and the six Shastras too shall perish. The saint's word alone is moveless.
The optimists will die, the egotists will die and the pessimists will die as well.
All that comes to view will pas off. Only the saints' word is unfathomable.
All by Himself, all by Himself is the Lord. All that is seen is His own play.
By no other way can He be obtained. Meeting with the Guru, Nanak has found His Lord, O Man.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Within my mind abides the great God.
Wherever the Lord is mediated upon; peace and pleasure reign in that village. Pause.
Where my Loved Lord is for-gotten; all miseries and misfortunes are there.
Where the praises of God, the embodiment of joy and bliss are elaborated; weal and wealth ever abide there.
Exceedingly terrible wilderness is there, where, with their ears, the mortals hear not the God's discourse.
Where in the society of saints, the Lord is praised with love; one gets abundant fragrance and the fruits joy there.
Bereft of God's meditation, he who lives for millions of years; vain is all his life.
If man reflects on the Lord, even for a moment, then lives he for ever and aye.
O Lord, Thy refuge, refuge, refuge, I have sought. Mercifully bless Thou me with the society of saints.
Nanak, the Lord is fully contained amongst all, and knows the state of the merits of all the mortals.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I have now obtained the Lord's support.
Whoever seek the refuge of the Treasure of mercy, they all are ferried across the world ocean. Pause.
They sleep in peace and easily merge in the Lord, and the Guru rids them of their doubt.
Whatever they wish, that the Lord does and they obtain their heart-desired fruits.
In my mind I contemplate God, with mine eyes, I fix my gaze on Him and with my ears, hear I His gospel.
With my feet I walk on the Lord's path, and with my tongue hymn I the God's praise.
I see the Lord, the Embodiment of all bliss with mine eyes. The saint has turned my mind away from the world.
I have obtained, the loved and priceless Name of God, which leaving me goes not elsewhere.
What praise, what glory and what virtues of the Lord should I utter, that He might be pleased?
On whomsoever, the Lord merciful to the meek, is compassionate, becomes the slave of His slaves, O servant Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
To whom should I tell and utter that state of bliss?
Seeing the Lord's vision, I am in bliss and intense delight, and my mind sings the Lord's praise and merits. Pause.
I am wonderstruck seeing my wonderous Lord. My Merciful Master is filling all.
I in-drink, the invaluable Name-Nectar, and like the dumb, who only smiles I can utter not its taste.
As the breath is kept bound to the body, and one knows not, when it comes in and goes out,
so is he, the mortal whose mind is illumined with the Lord's light, and his gospel can be narrated.
Other efforts, as many as they are said to be, so many have I learnt and practised.
My care-free Beloved has become manifest within my mind-home. It is as if I have assayed the Recondite Lord.
The Unqualitative, Formless, Eternal and Immeasurable Lord can be weighed not.
Says Nanak, whosoever endures the unendurable; him alone behoves this state.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The lustful person vainly passes his day and night.
Inebriated with haughty-intellect, man contemplates not his Lord, and loses his life in gamble. Pause.
Priceless is the Lord's Name, with it he enshrines not affection. He loves only to slander others.
Arranging the straw, he constructs a thatched hut, and burns fire inside its door.
The Lord of nitre he carries on his head, the Lord's Nectar, he drives out of his mind.
Wearing good clothes, man falls into the lamp-black and then shakes it off again and again.
Standing on its stem, he cuts down the tree and there he eats, eats and smiles.
He falls head long, down below and is shattered into bits and pieces.
With the uninimical one, he bears enmity, but the fool can equal him not.
Says Nanak, the formless Supreme Lord is the Saviour of His saints.
Sarang 5th Guru.
All others stray in doubt and know not their Lord.
He, within whose mind; he realises the quintessence of the Vedas. Pause.
The more man walks in the worldly way, the more he pleases the people.
As long as man's mind is illumined not, so long he remains in blind darkness.
As the land prepared in many ways germinate snot without being sown.
Similarly without the Lord's Name, man is emancipated not, nor is his pride dispelled.
Churning water, mortal suffers immensely. How can butter come out this wise?
Without meeting with the Guru no one is emancipated nor unites he with the Lord of the universe.
Searching and seeking, I have realised like this that all comforts are in God's Name.
Says Nanak, he alone is blessed with it, on whose brow good destiny is recorded.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Night and day, utter thou thy Lord's praise.
This way thou shall obtain all wealth, all comforts and successes and thy heart-desired fruits. Pause.
Come ye saints, let us meditate on the Eternal Lord, the Giver of vital breath and bliss.
God, the Master of the masterless and the Destroyer of the sorrow of the poor is permeating and biding in every heart.
The very fortunate ones sing, hear and recite with faith God's praise and in-drink God's elixir.
All the strifes and sufferings are wiped off from the body of those, who remain awake in the love of the Lord's Name.
Abandon thou thy lust, wrath, falsehood and slander Contemplating God, the bonds shall be loosed.
By the Guru's grace. one is rid of the intoxication of worldly love, ego and blind self-hood.
Thou are the Omnipotent, Transcendent Lord Master, show Thou mercy to me.
Thy slave My Master is fully contained amongst all. O Nanak, He, the Lord is just near.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Unto the Guru-God's feet, I am a sacrifice.
Associating with whom the Supreme Lord is meditated upon and whose instruction emancipates us. Pause.
Whosoever seeks the protection of the Lord's saints; all his distresses, diseases and dreads are dispelled.
The Guru, himself contemplates the Lord and makes others contemplate. He is greatly powerful, and is the ship to ferry across.
Such is the Guru, whose instruction drives out doubt and fully fills the empty one.
They, who obey the command of the Lord's slaves, enter not into the womb again.
Whosoever serves the saints and sings the Lord's praise; his pain of birth and death is effaced.
They, unto whom the Beloved becomes merciful; they endure the unendurable bliss of the Lord's Name.
They who are satiated with the God's elixir; they merge in the Lord and their glory can be uttered not with the mouth.
They, O Nanak, are content by the Guru's grace and remembering and contemplating the Lord's Name are emancipated.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my mate, sing, sing I the praise of God, the Treasure of virtues.
Auspicious is the opportunity, auspicious the day and the moment, when man pleases his Lord. Pause.
On the saints' feet, place I my forehead.
On my brow the saints have placed their hand.
With the saints instruction my mind is pleased,
whereby I have risen above the three qualities.
Seeing the saints sight, Lord's love has welled up in mine eyes,
and my association with avarice, worldly love and doubt is surrendered.
Says Nanak, I now abide in peace, poise and bliss,
and removing the wall of spiritual ignorance, I have met with the Lord of supreme bliss.
Sarang 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
How should I utter the pain of my soul?
I thirst for the vision of my fascinating and loved Beloved. My soul can live not without it and longs for it in many a way. Pause.
Sad in the love of my spouse, I cherish His thought. When shall I have the vision of my God?
I make effort, but this soul is comforted not. Is there any such saint, who may make me meet with my Groom?
Worship, penance, self-control and alms sacrifice I all unto my Lord. To Him I dedicate all my comforts and my abode too.
I am devoted unto that saint, who makes me see, even for an instant the vision of my loved spouse.
Implorations and supplications make I many before my spouse and serve Him day and night.
Abandon I all my self-hood and self-conceit before him, who narrates to me the gospel of my Groom.
I am wonder-struck seeing the wondrous plays of God and the great True Guru has made me meet with Him.
My merciful and merry Master, I have obtained within my home and my inner fire is quenched, O slave Nanak?
Sarang 5th Guru.
O fool, why not though contemplate on Lord now?
In the terrible hell thou did penance standing on thy head and sang the praise of thy God, every moment. Pause.
Wandering in various existences, thou has come to attain this precious human birth.
Leaving the womb existence, when thou emerged out, then got thou attached to another place.
Day and night thou practise evil beguile others and does useless deeds.
Thou thresh the straw, bereft of grain and running and racing about come to grief.
The false man is attached to falsehood and is entangled with the saf-flower.
When the Righteous judge seizes thee, O man mad, then thou shall arise and depart with the black face.
He alone meets with the Lord, whom He unites and on whose brow such a writ is written.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto the man, who remains detached in his mind.
Sarang 5th Guru.
How can I live without my Love, O mother?
Through whose separation, one becomes dead and is allowed not to stay in the house. Pause.
He, in whose association, one looks embellished, is the Giver of mind, soul and vital breath.
Shower thou thy benediction on me, O saint, that I may sing my Lord's praise with joy.
I keep the saints' feet on my forehead and mine eyes long for the collyrium of the dust of their feet.
O Nanak, a sacrifice, sacrifice am I unto him, by whose grace, I meet with my Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto that time,
when contemplating my Lord throughout the eight watches of the day, obtain I the Master through very good fortune. Pause.
Praiseworthy is Kabir, the slave of God's slaves and sublime is Sain barber.
The Lord's servant, Highest of the high is Nam Dev, who saw all alike and with Ravi Dass the Lord was pleased.
My soul, bodily-frame and wealth belong to the saints and this my mind is the dust of their feet.
By the saints effulgence all the doubts have been dispelled and I have met with my Lord, O Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The True Guru, of himself, has fulfilled my mind's desires.
Throughout the eight watches, O my soul, contemplate thou Him, by whose meditation all the wealth is obtained. Pause.
Nectar is Thy Name, O Lord. Whosoever drinks it, he is satiated.
His sins of many births are obliterated and hereafter, he obtains deliverance in the Lord's court.
O my perfect, eternal transcendent Lord, the Creator, I have sought Thine protection,
My Lord, show Thou mercy unto me, that I may meditate on Thine feet. Within my mind and body is the thirst for Thy vision.
Sarang 5th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O man why are thou lured away by the other?
Here and hereafter, the Lord is ever a Helper of thine, He is the companion of thy soul and is of use to thee. Pause.
Nectar-sweet is the Name of the Beauteous Darling Love. Drinking it one is satiated.
To fix attention in the Immortal Being, the saints' congregation is a sublime place.
The word of the great persons is a spell to rid man of his mental ego.
Through search Nanak has found God's Name to be the abode of bliss and peace.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O man, ever sing thou the praise of thy Lord.
Contemplating God's Name, even for a moment, within thy mind, thou shall be rid of all thine ailments, sorrows and sins. Pause.
abandon thou thy wisdom and great cleverness and go and enter the saints' sanctuary.
When Lord, the Destroyer of the sorrow of the poor becomes merciful, even the Yama turns into the King of righteousness.
Without the One Lord there is not another. No one else can equal Him.
He, the Lord, is Nanak's mother, father and brother and the Giver of peace to his vital-breath.
Sarang 5th Guru.
God's slave emancipates all his associates.
Their mind is rendered pure and immaculate and they are rid of the sorrows of many births. Pause.
They who walk on the saints path attain peace. They too are emancipated with whom they converse.
They who are drowning in the terrible blind well; through the society of the saints, even they are ferried across.
They whose destiny is great, O brother; their faces alone are turned towards the saints congregation.
Nanak, ever longs for the dust of the feet of those saints. May the Lord mercifully bless Nanak with it.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The Lord's slave meditates on the Name of his Lord Master.
Enjoying the society of saints, even for a moment, one is blessed with millions of heavens. Pause.
God's meditation sanctifies the priceless body and dispels the fear of death.
Cherishing the Lord's Name in the mind, the sins of the great sinner are washed off.
Whosoever hears the pure praise of the Lord; his pain of birth and death is dispelled.
Says Nanak, by great good fortune, man attains unto the Lord and then flower his soul and body.
Sarang 5th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my Fascinating Lord, I make supplication unto Thee Come Thou into my home.
I indulge in self-esteem and egoistic is my speech. Though in error and mistake, but still I am Thine hand-maiden, O my Spouse. Pause.
I hear Thou are near, but I see Thee not, Wandering in doubt I suffer in sorrow.
Becoming merciful the Guru has removed the screen and meeting with my Beloved, my soul is in bloom.
If I forget my Lord even for an instant, I deem that equal to myriads of days and lacs of years.
When I obtained the association of the saints' congregation, then met I with my God, O Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
What should I think of now? I have abandoned all thought.
Whatsoever He is to do, that He is doing. Bless Thou me with Thy Name, O Lord. A sacrifice am I unto Thee. Pause.
The poison of sins is flowering in the four directions. Guru's word's antidote I have within my mouth.
Lending His Hand, the Lord has saved me as His own and like the lotus in water, I now remain detached.
I am nothing. What can I be? Thou alone, O Lord, are the upholder of all powers.
I, Nanak, have hastened into Thy sanctuary, O Lord. Save Thou me for the sake of Thine saints.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I have now abandoned all efforts.
The Omnipotent Lord is the Doer of all deeds. From Thee alone, O God, is my deliverance. Pause.
I have seen good many beauties of various colours, but none else is like Thee.
Thou, O Lord, lend support to all and are the Giver of soul, vital-breath and peace.
Wandering, wandering when I got tired, then meeting with the Guru, fell I at the Lord's feet.
Says Nanak, I have attained all bliss and this life night of mine now passes in peace.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I have now found the support of my God.
Guru, the giver of peace, has become merciful to me and I, the blind one, have seen the jewel of God. Pause.
Casting off the darkness of ignorance I have become immaculate and my discriminating intellect has blossomed.
As the wave and foam of water become water, so the Lord's slave and the Lord become one,
The slave comes there where from he had welled up and in all respects becomes one with the One Lord.
Nanak, I see God, the Lord of life, uniformly contained in all the places.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My soul longs for its only Beloved.
I have seen all the places and the countries, but nothing equals even an hair of my love. Pause.
Before me are placed various diets and many dainties, but I desire not even to look at them.
As the bumble-bee covets the lotus flower, so I long for the God's elixir and with my mouth utter "Beloved, my Beloved ".
He the Treasure of virtues and the Enticer of mind, my Beloved is the Giver of peace to all.
Guru Nanak has led me to my Lord. O God, my Friend, meet thou me and hug me to Thy bosom,
Sarang 5th Guru.
My mind is now pleased with my Lord.
The saint has become kind and compassionate to me and has destroyed this evil duality of mine. Pause.
My Master, Thou are beauteous, Thou are wise and Thou are accomplished and Omniscient.
All the yogis, the divines and the contemplators know not even a bit of Thy worth, O Lord.
Thou are the Master, Thou the Lord of the umbrella and Thou the All-filling Auspicious God.
Bless Thou me, O God, with the gift of the saints ' service. I am ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Within my mind, remember I my Blissful Beloved.
I have forgotten the entangling affairs of the world and the entire night of life, I war with evil. Pause
God I serve, God I enshrine in my mind and God I attain to in the saints ' society.
Such a Beauteous Beloved have I met with, that I have obtained the asked comforts.
My Guru has brought my spouse under my sway and I enjoy His union with abandon,
I have become fearless and past is my fear. By the word's recitation, I have attuned to my God, O Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I am a sacrifice unto the vision of my Revered Lord.
The music of His words fills mine ears and my body has sunk into my Spouse lap. Pause.
Me, the discarded one, the Guru has made a happy bride and I have obtained my accomplished and Omniscient Lord.
The home, in which I was not allowed even to sit; that place I have obtained to dwell in.
God, the Lover of His saints comes under the sway of those, who protect the honour of His saints.
Says Nanak, my soul is pleased with my God and my subservience of people is now all ended.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Now my association with the five demons is snapped.
Seeing the Lord's vision, my mind is in bliss and by the Guru's grace, I am now released. Pause.
The body abode with many, many buttresses is guarded by many warriors and is difficult to assail.
It is an arduous fortress where to the hand reaches not, but obtaining the saint's companionship I have robbed (conquered) the body fortress.
I have come upon many treasures of priceless and inexhaustible gems.
O slave Nanak, when the Lord showed mercy unto me, then my mind sucked God's elixir.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My soul is now merged in the Lord.
The perfect Guru has blessed me with the gift of spiritual life and I am now involved with the Lord. as the fish is with water. Pause.
When the Guru gave this gift, then I cast off all my lust, wrath, avarice, ego and envy.
Implanting his instruction within me, when the Guru blessed me with the medicine of God's Name, then met I with the All-wise Lord.
O Lord, my house belongs to Thee and Thou are mine. Blessed with Thy Name by the Guru I am rid of my self-conceit.
Says Nanak, within my home, I have easily obtained the treasure, the treasure of the Lord's meditation,
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my Bewitching Lord, all the beings belong to Thee and Thou emancipate them.
Through a bit of Thy mercy, O Lord, Tyrannies cease and Thou redeem Millions of universes. Pause.
I make many supplications and implorations and remember Thee every moment, O Lord.
O Lord, the Destroyer of the sorrow of the poor, be Thou merciful and lending me Thy hand, save Thou me.
What can these poor kind said to be before thee, O Lord? Say thou, who can they kill?
O my Peace-giving Lord, save, save, save Thou me, The entire world belongs to Thee, says Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I have now obtained the wealth of God's Name.
I have become care-free and my desire is all stilled such a destiny is writ on my forehead. Pause.
Searching and seeking, I have become sad and wandering abroad, I have now come to my body village.
The merciful Guru has settled this bargain, and I have obtained my Inaccessible Love.
Other traffic and trade which one transacts; in them all, he suffers sorrow.
Fearless are the readers, who deal in the Lord's meditation. Their capital, O Nanak is the Lord's Name.
Sarang 5th Guru.
To my mind sweet seem the word of my Love.
Seizing me by the arm, the Guru has yoked me to the Lord's service. The Loved Lord is ever merciful to me. Pause.
My Lord Master, Thou sustain all. With my wife, from head to foot I am a slave of Thine.
All my honour and might, Thou are, Thou are, O Lord. Thy Name alone is my Mainstay.
If Thou seat me on the throne, then I am a slave of Thine, If Thou makes me cut grass, then too what can I say?
Servant Nanak's Master is the Omnipotent Creator, My Lord is the Unfathomable and immeasurable.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Uttering the Lord's praise, the tongue looks beauteous.
The Lord creates and destroys in moment. Seeing His wondrous plays, my soul is bewitched. Pause.
Hearing whose praise, man's mind is in supreme bliss and he is rid of ego and sorrow of his heart.
Since I have ingratiated Thee, O Lord, I obtained peace and shaken off sorrow.
My sins are wiped off and my mind is sanctified. The Guru has pulled me out of the deceitful mammon,
Says Nanak, I have obtained the Lord, who is Omnipotent to do all the deeds.
Sarang 5th Guru.
With mine eyes, I have seen the Lord's wondrous shows and plays,
My Lord is far from all and yet is near to all. The Recondite and Inaccessible Lord abides in all hearts. Pause.
The Infallible Lord errs not, He writes not His order, nor He consults with any fifty or so.
God, the Lover of His devotees and the Treasure of virtues creates, embellishes and destroys in an instant.
'Burning of lamp in the mind's blind well, the Guru has illumined it.
Says Nanak, seeing the Lord's vision I have procured peace, and all my hopes have been realised.
Sarang 5th Guru.
For the feet, the most beauteous path to tread upon is of the Lord.
The more-man walks on another path, the more pain and repentance he suffers. Pause
Seeing the Lord's vision the eyes are purified and serving Him, the hands are purified and serving Him the Hands are purified.
Sanctified is the mind, the mind wherein the Lord abides and sanctified is the brow, on which the dust of the saints feet falls.
All the treasures are in the Lord God's Name, but he alone is blessed with it, in whose destiny it is so writ.
Slave Nanak has met with his Perfect Guru and his life night, now, passes in peace, poise and pleasure.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Contemplate thou the Lord's Name, which shall by thy helper at the last moment.
Where thy mother, father, son and brother shall be of no avail to thee, there, there, the Lord's name shall save thee. Pause.
He alone meditates on the Lord in the blind well of his mind-home, on whose forehead good destiny is writ.
His bonds are loosened, the Guru emancipates him, and, O Lord, he sees, Thee, Thee alone all over.
Quaffing the Name-Nectar, the soul is satiated and tasting it, the tongue is sated.
Says Nanak, I have obtained celestial bliss and the Guru has quenched all my thirst.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Meeting with the Guru, I have so contemplated the Lord,
that he, the Destroyer of the sorrow, has become compassionate and merciful, and now, even the hot wind touches me not. Pause.
As many breaths as breathe I, with so many sing I my Lord's praises.
He separates not from me even for an instant and I forget Him not for a moment either. Wherever I go, He is ever with me.
A sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice am I unto the Lord's lotus feet and I am devoted, devoted unto the vision of my Guru.
Says Nanak, I care not for aught else, now that I have obtained my Lord, the ocean of peace.
Sarang 5th Guru.
To my mind seems sweet the Guru's word.
My destiny is awake, the Divine Light has become manifest and I see my Lord God in every heart. Pause.
Unborn and self-illumined is my supreme Lord, and He is seated within every place and heart.
I have obtained the Nectar-Name, and a sacrifice, sacrifice am I unto the Lord's feet.
When the dust of the saints 'congregation anoints my face, I am deemed to have bathed at all the places of pilgrimage.
Says Nanak, I have assumed the deep-red dye and this madder like colour of God's love fades not.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The Guru Has blest me with the Lord Master's Name as my comrade,
enshrining the Lord's Word within my mind even for an instant, my hunger is all stilled. Pause.
On God, Thou are the Treasure of mercy, the Master of virtues, the Giver of all-bless and the Lord of all.
My hope rests only in Thee, O my Master, Vain is the hope of any other.
When the Guru placed his hand on my brow, then mine eyes were sated seeing the Lord's vision.
Says Nanak, I am, now, blessed with inestimable bliss, and my fear of birth and death is dispelled.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O fool, why go thou any where else?
With thee is the Beauteous elixir of the Lord and deluded, deluded, thou eat poison, O man. Pause.
Winsome, wise and incomparable is thy Creator-Lord; with Him thou has not even an iota of love.
The Mad man's mind is involved with mammon, the enticer and he has taken the intoxicating herb of untruth.
God, the Destroyer of sorrows has become merciful and compassionate and so the saints are pleased with me, now.
Says Nanak, I have obtained all the treasures in my very home and my light has merged in the Supreme Light.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Since the very beginning, my mind is in love with God, my Beloved.
When thou, O my true Guru, blessed me with thy instruction, since then I have been embellished. Pause.
I am in error and Thou are ever Infallible. I am a sinner and Thou are the Saviour of sinners.
I am a low-quality tree and Thou are the sandal-plant. Preserve Thou the honour of my abiding along-side, along-side Thee.
Thou are the profound, calm and Beneficient Lord. What am I a helpless being before thee?
Nanak, the merciful Guru, has united me with the Lord. Since then recline I in His couch of bliss.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my soul blessed and approved is the day,
fruitful the hour and auspicious the moment, when associating with the True Guru, receive I the Divine knowledge. Pause.
Blest is my good destiny and blest my Spouse. Blessed are they, whom the Lord blesses with glory.
This body is Thine, my home and wealth all belong to Thee and sacrifice I, my soul unto Thee, O my Lord.
Seeing Thine vision even for a moment, I obtain millions and lacs of empires and pleasures,
O Lord, when with Thy mouth Thou say, "my slave, be thou seated here" Nanak can know not the limit of that glee.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Now I am rid of fear and sorrow.
I have abandoned, abandoned all other efforts and have repaired to the True Guru's refuge. Pause.
I have met with complete success, my tasks are all accomplished and my ailment of ego is wholly eradicated.
Meeting with the Guru, I utter God's Name and am rid of millions of sins in an instant.
Subjugating the five evil passions, the Guru has made them my slaves and my mind has become moveless and my mind has become moveless and fear-free, now.
My mind now comes and goes not, nor wobbles it anywhere. Eternal has become my empire, O Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My Lord is ever a succourer of mine, both here and hereafter,
God, the soul-charmer, is the Beloved of my soul, what praises of the Lord can I utter and sing?. Pause.
He dandles and fondles me and ever, ever blesses me with bliss.
He sustains me in such a way, as mother and father do their child.
Without Him, I can live not even for a moment, so I forget Him not ever.
Says Nanak, meeting with the society of saints, I am enraptured and attuned to my Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Sing thou the praise of thy Lord, the Friend.
Rest thou not thy hope upon any one else and contemplate thy bliss-giving Lord. Pause.
Seek thou the protection of Him within whose Home are peace, pleasure and salvation.
Forsaking Him, if thou serve man, then thy honour shall be dissolved like salt in the water
I have seized the refuge of the one Lord and meeting with the Guru, am blessed with wisdom and understanding.
O Nanak, my Lord, the Treasure or virtues has met me and all my dependence on men is gone.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I have the powerful support of my Sire Master,
I look up to not any one else, my honour and glory are all in Thy hand, O Lord. Pause
My Lord has taken my side and has pulled me out of the whirlpool of sins.
The medicine of the Nectar-Name, the Lord has poured in my mouth and I have repaired to the Guru's feet.
What praise of Thine can I utter with one mouth? Thou are beneficent even to the virtueless.
Says Nanak, cutting the noose, when Thou own me, O Lord, then I am blessed with many comforts.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Contemplating the Lord, the woes are ended.
When God, the Giver of peace to the soul becomes merciful, one is wholly exonerated. Pause.
Without the Lord, I see not another, say, who else is one to go to?
As Thou deem fit, so save Thou me, O Lord, I have wholly surrendered myself to Thee
Giving His hand, the Imperishable Lord has saved me and has blessed me with eternal life.
Says Nanak, my mind is in bliss, and snapped for me is the death's noose.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My soul ever remembers Thee, O Lord.
I am Thy helpless child and Thou are my Father-Lord. As Thou deem proper, so do Thou save me. Pause.
When hungry, then ask I for food and when satiated, I am wholly in bliss.
When I bide with Thee, then am I disease-free, Separating from Thee, I become dust.
O Lord, the Establisher and Disestablisher, what is it, that is in the power of the slave of thine slaves?
Nanak, makes this supplication, that then alone one obtains eternal life if one forgets not the Name.
Sarang 5th Guru.
From my mind, have shaken off fear and dread.
Slowly, slowly sing I the praise of my deep-red and merciful Darling Beloved. Pause.
Practising the Guru's word, by the Guru's grace, my mind, again, wanders not anywhere.
My woe is dispelled, I am seated in trance of peace and the Lord, the lover of His devotees I have attained to within my home.
I enjoy melody, revelments, wondrous plays and pleasures and am easily absorbed in the Lord.
Says Nanak, the Lord Himself is the Doer and Himself the Cause. He Himself is all-in-all.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The Nectar-Name is the mainstay of my soul.
I make obeisance unto the Perfect Guru and am a sacrifice unto the Perfect Guru and am a sacrifice unto him who has blessed me with it. Pause.
My desire is stilled, I have been easily embellished and the poison of my lust and wrath, is burnt off.
This soul of mine comes and goes not, but abides in a place, where the Formless Lord's seat is The One Lord is manifest,
The One Lord is recondite and the one Lord is absolute darkness.
He, the Lord is in the beginning, the middle and the end, Says Nanak, True is the meditation of that Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Without the Lord, I can live not even for a moment.
He alone is brimful with all comforts, in whose home is the joy of God. Pause.
God is the embodiment of the wealth of bliss and the mainstay of life, contemplating whom one is blessed with great gladness.
With what tongue should I utter the praise of Him, who is greatly Omnipotent and ever, ever a comrade of mine.
Pure is the Lord's seat, pure His glory and pure are they who hear and utter of Him.
Says Nanak, sanctified is the house, wherein abide Thine saints, O Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My tongue utters Thy Name, Thy Name alone.
In the mother's belly, Thou alone sustain me and in this mortal world, Thou alone are my property. Pause.
Thou are my Father, Thou my mother and Thou my Friend, well-wisher and Brother.
Thou are my family and Thou my mainstay. Thou alone are the Giver of life and the vital breath to me.
Thou are my Treasure and Thou my wealth, Thou alone are my emerald and jewel.
Thou are the Elysian Tree Nanak has obtained Thee through the Guru and then abides he in bliss.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Wherever man is, he remembers only him, who is his own,
Whosoever is some one's servant, he goes to his Master alone in need. Pause.
To his own, he tells his sorrow to his own, his joy and to his own, his state.
From his own, he obtains honour, from his own advantage.
Some have empire, youth, wealth and property and some father and mother.
All the things I have obtained from the Guru and my hope has been fulfilled, says Nanak
Sarang 5th Guru.
False is the pride and ego of riches.
O wretched man, rid thyself of fraud and worldly love and know that thy Lord is with thee. Pause.
False are the dominions, youth, dukes, kings, sovereigns and the nobles.
Vain are the raiments, per fumes and cleverness, and vain the fares and drinks.
O my Lord, the relation of the meek, I, The slave of Thy slaves, have sought the protection of Thine saints.
O Lord, I ask, ask Thee, to make me care-free. O God, the very life of Nanak, mercifully meet Thou with me,
Sarang 5th Guru.
His own task, man accomplishes not even a bit;
he greatly runs after many worldly affairs and is engrossed in other involvements. Pause
The friends of four days whom he sees here, are not there, where is he to face calamity.
This ignorant man is hand and glove and fixes his attention with those, who are of no avail to him.
I am naught, nothing belongs to me, nor have I any power and effort.
O the Lord of Nanak, Thou alone are the Creator and the Cause and through the saints society Thou redeem the mortals.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Mammon keeps on enticing away all. It can not be stopped with efforts to stop it.
She is the sweetheart of all the strivers and adepts, By anyone's warding off, she can he warded not off. Pause.
Her effect is lessened not, even if the mortal utters the six Shastras with his tongue and visits the holies.
Worship, religious marks, fasting, vow and penance; through them too she leaves not one's pursuit.
The world is falling into the blind well, O saints, bless ye me with the supreme status of salvation.
Seeing the Lord's vision even for a moment, Nanak has been emancipated, through the saints society.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Earning profit, what shall thou do, O man?
Puffed up with wind, thy skin is swollen and exceedingly brittle is the dust of thy body, O man. Pause.
As the hawk takes away flesh with a swoop, so snatch thou the valuable from here and place it there.
O blind man, thou has forgotten thy Beneficent Lord and thou fill thy belly like the traveler sitting at a shop.
Thou are involved in the relish of the false pleasures of worthless sins. Narrow is the path there where thou has to go.
Says Nanak, chasten thyself, O ignorant man, today or tomorrow the knot of thy life shall be untied.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O Reverend Guru, Through thine association, I have realised my Lord.
There are millions of warriors in the Lord's court, No one heeds them there, but there even, I am honoured and revered. Pause
What is said to be the origin of man? How beauteous looks he now?
But when God reveals His Light in the dust, priceless is called the body.
From thee, O Guru, I have learnt to serve, contemplate and wait upon my Lord and from thee I have realised His quintessence.
O Nanak, placing his hand on my forehead, the Guru has snapped my bonds and made me the slave of the Lord's slaves.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The Lord God has blessed His serf with his Name;
what can anyone do to such a person, whose saviour is the Lord, O poor brother. Pause.
The Lord Himself is the Great being Himself the leader and Himself accomplishes the tasks of His servant.
Lord, the searcher of hearts, Himself destroys all the demons.
God Himself saves the honour of His slave and Himself blesses him with stability.
Since the very beginning and the beginning of ages, the Lord has been saving the honour of His slaves, O Nanak, rare is the one, who knows the Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My God. Thou are my Friend, Comrade and the vital breath.
My soul, wealth, life and body all belong to Thee, This body of mine is sewn in Thine meditation, O Lord. Pause.
Thou has given me various sorts of boons and Thou has blessed me with honour.
O my Omniscient Lord, the knower of hearts, ever, ever preserve Thou my honour.
The saints, who know Thee, O my Lord; acceptable is their advent in this world.
Through the greatest good fortune God's slaves society is obtained. Unto the saints Nanak is a sacrifice.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Emancipate thou me, O compassionate saint.
Thou are all-powerful to do all the deeds, Thou alone has bridged my separation from God. Pause.
Thou save the sinners of a millions of births and through thy association they obtain sublime understanding.
Forgetting the Lord, they wandered in many, existences and by the saints' grace, they now sing God's praise with their every breath.
Whatever sinners meet with the saint; they all are sanctified.
Says Nanak, they, who have the greatest sublime destiny, win the invaluable human life.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My Lord, Thy slave has come to make s supplication.
Hearing Thy Name, obtain I all comforts, pleasures, celestial blisses and relishes. Pause.
The Treasure of mercy and ocean of peace is the Lord, whose praise is spread amidst all.
Thou, O Lord, make merry with Thine saints and make Thyself manifest unto them.
With my eyes, I see the saints and dedicate myself to their service and with mine hair, cleanse I their feet.
The eight watches through I see the saints vision, This is the bliss, that Nanak has received.
Sarang 5th Guru.
He, who imbibes love for the Lord's Name,
is a good-hearted friend, who is easily embellished and very fortunate he is said to be. Pause.
He is rid of sins, and detached from mammon and renounces he the poison of egoistic intellect.
He thirsts for the Lord's vision and leans on the one alone, Within his mind is the support of His Beloved's feet.
Care-free he sleeps, wakes up, stands and sits and care-free he laughs and weeps.
Says Nanak, she who has beguiled the world; That mammon is beguiled by the Lord's slave.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Now, no one complains against the Lord's slave.
Whosoever makes effort to complain; Him the Guru-God destroys. Pause.
Whosoever bears enmity with the uninimical; he loses in God' s court.
Since the beginning and the beginning of ages this has been the glory of the Lord, that He preserves the honour of His slaves.
Leaning on the Lord's lotus feet, man becomes fear-free and all his fear is past.
Uttering the Lord's Name, through the Guru's instruction, Nanak has been renowned in the world.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I, the God's slave, have wholly abandoned my self-conceit.
As Thou deem fit, so save Thou me, O Lord of the world, I live by seeing Thy effulgence. Pause.
Through the Guru's instruction and the saints society all my sorrow is effaced.
Seeing the friend and the foe, I deem them alike, All my utterance is but the Lord's meditation.
My inner-fire is quenched and I am cool and content, Hearing celestial strain, I am wonder-struck and astonished.
O Nanak, hearing the perfect Divine word of the perfect Guru, true bliss has welled up within my mind.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My Guru has rid me of my doubt.
Unto that Guru, I am a sacrifice. Ever, ever devoted unto him, am I. Pause.
The Guru's Name, remember I day and night and the Guru's feet enshrine I in my mind,
I ever bathe in the dust of the Guru's feet and this wise the filth of my sins is washed off.
I serve ever my Perfect Guru and unto my Guru, make I obeisance.
The Perfect Guru has blessed me with all the fruits and the Guru has emancipated me, O Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Contemplating the Name, mortal obtains salvation.
Loving the society of the saints, man is rid of his woe and his fear is all effaced. Pause.
God, God, God, God, his mind meditates upon and his tongue sings the Lord's praise.
Abandoning pride, lust, wrath and slander, he embraces affection for the Luminous Lord.
Meditate thou on the Merciful Master and uttering the Name of the Lord of the universe, thou shall be embellished.
Whosoever becomes the dust of the feet of all; says Nanak, he merges in the Lord Master's vision.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Unto my Perfect Guru, I am a sacrifice.
God, the Saviour, has saved me and has made manifest the glory of His Name. Pause.
His servants and slaves the Lord makes fear-free and rids them of all their sorrows.
O men, abandon thou all other efforts and enshrine the Lord's lotus feet with thy mind.
The One Unique Lord, my Friend and Intimate is the mainstay of my vital-breath.
The Highest of high is He, the Lord of Nanak, Again and again, I make obeisance unto Him.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Tell me thou, where is that man, in whom the Lord is not?
The Creator, who is the Embodiment of mercy, confers all comforts, Ever meditate thou on that Lord. Pause.
Sing thou the praise of that Lord, in whose thread, the creatures are strung.
Remember thou the Lord, who gives thee everything, Why go thou to anyone else?
Fruitful is the service of the Lord. Through it man obtains his heart-desired fruits.
Says Nanak, depart thou after taking the gain and profit. This wise thou shall go home with ease.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O Lord, I have sought Thy refuge.
The anxiety of my mind has departed, since I obtained Thine vision. Pause.
Without my speaking, Thou know my state and make me utter Thy Name.
Singing Thy praise my sorrow has fled, I am merged in peace and poise and am in utter bliss.
Taking my arm, Thou has pulled me out of the blind well of worldly attachments and mammon.
Says Nanak, the Guru has broken my bonds and has united me with God, from whom I was separated.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Cool and comforting is the procurement of God's Name;
the saints have found this out on seeking the Vedas, the Puranas and the Simritis. Pause.
In the realms of Shiva, Brahma and Indra, one wanders, burning in the fire of envy.
Remembering and contemplating the Lord, one becomes cool and is rid of sorrow, pain and doubt.
Whosoever was saved in the past and present time; he was saved through the love-worship of the Luminous Lord.
Says Nanak, "O Sire Lord, I pray unto Thee. Bless Thou me with the service of the saints".
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my tongue, sing thou the Lord's ambrosial praise
Contemplating thou thy Lord God, hear the gospel of God and utter the Lord's Name O man. Pause.
Amass thou the invaluable wealth of the Lord's Name and with Thy mind and body love thy God.
Deem thou other wealth as false. This alone is the true aim of life.
God is the Giver of soul, vital breath and salvation. Profess thou love for Him alone.
Says Nanak, I have entered the sanctuary of Him alone, who gives sustenance to all.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I can do not any other deed.
Meeting with the saints, I have obtained this one support of entering the sanctuary of the Unique Lord. Pause.
Within this body are the five wicked enemies and so man does sinful and evil deeds.
Infinite is his hope, but his days are numbered and old-age is eating up his vitality.
The Merciful Master, the Patron of the patronless and the ocean of peace, is the Destroyer of all the ill and fears.
Slave Nanak heartily desires and longs for this boon, that his life may pass, seeing the Lord's feet,
Sarang 5th Guru.
Insipid are the relishes without the Lord's Name.
Sing thou the Nectar-sweet praise of God and day and night, the celestial music shall ring for thee. Pause.
Contemplating the Lord, one is blessed with peace and supreme bliss and is rid of all sorrows.
The profit of God's Name, is attained in the saints society and loading it one brings it home,
He is the highest of all and loftier than the lofty. There is no limit to His divine doings.
Nanak can utter not the Lord's glory and seeing Him, he is wonder-struck.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The mortal has come to hear and utter the Guru's word.
Forgetting the Name thou attached thyself to other desires. Vain is thy life, O mortal. Pause.
O my thoughtless soul, reform thyself and contemplate thy Lord. The saints utter only the story of the Ineffable Lord.
Gather thou the profit of remembering the God in thy mind this way thy comings and goings shall end.
Effort, power and wisdom are Thine, O Lord if Thou grant them to me, then alone can I repeat Thy Name.
Nanak, they alone are the devotees and they alone attach to Thy devotional service, who are pleasing to Thee, O my Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Wealthy are the dealers of the Lord's Name.
Enter into partnership with them and reflecting on the Guru's word, earn thou the riches of God's Name. Pause.
Abandon thou thy guile, be uninimical and see that Lord ever with thee.
Deal thou only in the wealth of the True Name and amass thou the wealth of the True Name. This wise thou shall return not defeated ever.
By expending and eating, it exhausts not, as, of it, the Lord has numberless brimful treasures.
Says Nanak, this-wise alone, thou shall go to the court of the Supreme Lord with glory.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O sire Lord, how patronless and helpless am I?
From what beginning, Thou has made a man of me. This is Thy glory. Pause.
Thou, O Lord is the Giver of soul and vital-breath to all. Thine infinite virtues can be uttered not.
Thou are the Beloved of all the Cherisher of all and the Mainstay of all hearts.
No one knows Thy state and extent, Thou alone has made the world.
Says Nanak, seat Thou me in the boat of the saints, O Lord, that I may ferry across the terrible world-ocean.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Very fortunate is he, who enters the Lord's sanctuary.
Without the One Lord, he knows not another and he abandons other efforts.
With his thought, word and deed, he meditates on the Lord God and obtains peace in the society of saints,
He enjoy bliss, revelments and the relish of the unutterable gospel of God and easily merges in the True Lord.
He whom the Master, mercifully makes His own; sublime is his word.
They alone are emancipated through the society of saints, O Nanak, who are imbued with their detached Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Since I have grasped the saints' refuge,
my mind is illumined with peace and poise and I am rid of all may pain. Pause.
Be Thou Merciful, O Lord and bless me with Thy Name. This is the supplication, that I make.
Contemplating the Lord, other affairs are forgotten and one obtains the right profit.
From whosoever he welled up, into Him he merges. In reality he was that very Invaluable object.
Says Nanak, the Guru has dispelled my doubt and my light has merged in the Supreme light.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my tongue, sing thou thy Lord's praise.
Abandon thou all other relishes. Sublime is the savour of the Lord's Name. Pause.
O man, enshrine thou the Lord's lotus feet within thy mind and be thou attuned to the One Lord alone.
Through the society of saints, thou shall become immaculate and shall enter not in existences again.
Thou, O Lord, are the mainstay of my soul and vital-breath and Thou the abode of the abodeless.
Nanak, with my every breath, I contemplate my Lord God and am ever a sacrifice unto Him.
Sarang 5th Guru.
To contemplate ever the Lord's feet is to abide in the Lord's realm.
By the saints society, one is blessed with the wealth of emancipation and the Lord's Nectar-Name. Pause.
O Auspicious Lord, show Thou mercy unto me, that, with mine ears, I may hear Thy sublime gospel.
This wise I am blessed with perfect peace and pleasure in both the states of life and death.
Searching and seeking I have realised this to be the quintessence that the Lord's sublime meditation alone fulfils the mortal.
Says Nanak, without the Name of the one Lord, imperfect are all other ways.
Sarang 5th Guru.
True and Beneficient is my Satguru,
seeing his vision all the distresses are dispelled and unto his lotus feet, I am a sacrifice. Pause.
True is the Supreme Lord, True the Holymen and ever-stable the Lord's Name.
Embrace thou the loving and sing the praise of the Imperishable God.
The worth of the Inaccessible and Inapprehensible Lord can be found not, He is the prop of all hearts.
O Nanak, hurrah, hurrah say thou unto Him, to whose limit there is no end.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The Guru's feet abode within my mind.
My Lord is fully-filling all places. He bides near and close to all. Pause.
Breaking the bonds, I have imbibed love for the Lord and now the saints are pleased with me.
My priceless life has been sanctified and all my desires are fulfilled.
O my Lord God, on whomsoever is Thy mercy; he alone sings Thy praise.
Slave Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto him, who, the eight watches through sings the praise of the World-Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Then alone man is accounted alive, if he sees his God.
O Bewitching Lord, my Beloved, show Thou mercy unto me and erase my writ of doubt. Pause.
By Saying and hearing, peace wells up not, even a bit. What can one learn without faith.
Forsaking the Lord, he who longs for another; his face is soiled with smut.
He, who is blessed with the capital of God, the Embodiment of all Bliss, believes not in any other creed.
Nanak, he whose soul is inebriated and fascinated with the Lord's vision; his tasks are well accomplished.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The Lord's Name alone is worthy of meditation.
This wise the sins are burnt off in an instant. Within it are contained millions of alms-giving and ablutions. Pause.
In other involvements, one suffers sorrow in vain. Without the Lord, vain are other wisdom.
Contemplating and thinking of the Blissful Lord, the mortal is rid of the travail of birth and death.
O perfect Lord, the ocean of peace, I seek Thy refuge, In Thine mercy, bless Thou me with this gift.
Nanak lives by contemplating, Contemplating his Lord and this wise his self-conceit is also eradicated.
Sarang 5th Guru.
He alone is the disguiser, who attaches himself to the Primal Lord.
He alone is the ash-smearer and he the patched-coat wearer, who remains absorbed in the relish of the love of One Lord. Pause.
He practises deception and understands not his gain. He is not a cheat but a fool.
He abandons profitable deeds and is involved in unprofitable ones. He contemplate not on his Beauteous Lord.
He alone is clever, wise and learned, he alone is brave, he alone is intelligent,
and he alone is approved, who meditates on his Lord-God, O Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
God's Name is the vital-breath of His saints.
Instead of enjoying the sinful pleasures, they in-drink the ambrosial juice of the Name of their Lord, the ocean of peace. Pause.
They amass the priceless wealth of the Lord's Name and weave it in their mind and body.
Imbued with the God's Love, their soul sparkles like the tulip flower and with the Lord's Nectar Name they are inebriated.
As the fish is involved with water, so are they blended with the Lord's Name.
Nanak, the saints are like the sparrow hawk and are comforted, quaffing the drop of God's Name.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Without God's Name, one is but a ghost.
As many deeds as he deeds as he does, so many, one and all, are bonds and shackles. Pause.
Without the Lord's service he who performs another's service he, wastes his time in vain.
When death's courier comes to destroy thee, what shall be thy condition then, O mortal?
O my, ever, ever Merciful Master, save thou me, the slave of Thine.
O Nanak, my Lord is the Treasure of peace and He alone is the wealth and property of the saints' congregation.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The saints ' mind and body deal only in the Lord.
Imbued with the loving adoration of their Lord, they sing His praise and the world affects them not. Pause.
He hears the Lord's praise with his ears and embraces His meditation; this is the conduct of the saint.
The Lord's lotus feet, he places within his mind and the Lord's worship is the prop of his very life.
O my Master, Merciful to the meek, hear Thou my supplication and shower Thine benediction on me.
With my tongue, ever utter I Thy Name, the treasure of bliss, Nanak is ever devoted unto Thee, O Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Paltry is the intellect of one, bereft of the Lord's Name.
He meditates not on his Lord, The Master of wealth and the blind one suffers terrible agony. Pause.
He imbibes not affection for the Lord's name and is greatly attached to various religious garbs.
His secular love takes no time to sunder, as the water in the broken pitcher stays not.
My Lord, mercifully bless me Thou with Thy love-worship, that my soul may remain absorbed in the intoxication of Thy delicious affection.
My Lord, slave Nanak has entered Thine sanctuary. Without Thee I know not any other.
Sarang 5th Guru.
In my mind, I long for the moment,
when meeting with the friendly saints' congregation, I would ever sing the praises of the Lord. Pause.
Without God's meditation, as many deeds as the mortal does, so many go in vain.
The perfect Lord, the Embodiment of supreme Bliss is sweet unto my mind. Without Him there is not another.
Worship, penance, self-mortification, pious deed and other means of peace; the Lord's Name, they equal not even a bit.
With the Lord's lotus feet Nanak's soul is pierced through and with His feet it is pleased.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My Lord, the Inner-knower, is ever with me.
Contemplating the Lord's Name, I obtain bliss hereafter and am at peace and ease here. Pause.
God is my Friend, Intimate and companion and I sing the praise of my Lord God, the King.
The perfect Guru has made me meet with my Lord and I forget Him not form my mind even for a moment.
He, in whose power are men and other creatures mercifully protects me, His slave.
He who is attuned to the One perfect Transcendent Lord, O Nanak, is rid of all fear.
Sarang 5th Guru.
He, whose power is my Lord;
all his heart's desires are fulfilled and to him no sorrow clings. Pause.
The mortal, who is the saint and salve of His Lord; I live by hearing his glory.
I make effort to see his vision, which only, by good luck, one is blessed with.
Through the Guru's grace and naught else, I see his vision with mine eyes.
O Lord, bless Thou Nanak, Thy slave with the gift that he may live by washing the feet of Thine saints.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I live to sing the praise of my Lord.
O my Loved Lord, show Thou mercy unto me, that I may forget Thee not ever. Pause.
My soul, body and wealth are all Thine, O Lord. There is not any other place for me.
As Thou keep me, so do I live, I wear and eat, what Thou give me.
I am a sacrifice unto the society of the saints, through whose grace, I shall wander not into existences, again.
Slave Nanak ha sought Thy refuge O Lord, As Thou will, so do Thou drive him.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my soul, sublime peace is in the Lord's Name.
Sinful are other worldly affairs, They all seem to be but dust. Pause.
The mortal has fallen into the blind well of the household, which is like the terrible, dark hell.
He grows weary of wandering in various species and wanders in them over and over again.
O the Purifier of sinners and the lover of His saints, show Thou mercy unto me, the Meek one.
With joined hands Nanak asks for a boon, "O Lord, emancipate Thou me through the saints' society".
Sarang 5th Guru.
The Lord's glory is spreading every where.
Mine ailments of mind, body and doubt are all eradicated and I am rid of the three fevers. Pause.
My desire is settled, my hopes are all realised and my sorrows and sufferings are dispelled.
Singing the praises of the Immovable and imperishable Lord, my mind, body and soul are sated.
Associating with the saints, lust, wrath, avarice, ego and envy are destroyed.
God, the Mother and Father of Nanak, is the lover of His saints and the Destroyer of dread.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Miserable is the world, without the Lord's Name.
It is clung to ash like sins and so its doggish desire is stilled not. Pause.
Ministering the intoxicating herb, the Lord, of Himself has strayed man and so it is born again and again.
God's meditation, he embraces not even for a moment. So death's courier makes him miserable.
O Lord, the Destroyer of the distress of the meek, be Thou Merciful unto me and make me the dust of the feet of Thine saints.
Slave Nanak asks for the Lord's vision, which is the mainstay of his soul and body.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Impure is the mortal without the Lord's Name.
Ministering to him the poison of sins, He, the true Lord has, of Himself, strayed him. Pause.
Wandering about in millions of births in many ways, he obtains not stability anywhere.
The mammon-worshipper, who meets not with the perfect True Guru, with equipoise, continues coming and going.
O my All-powerful and Beneficent Master, save Thou me, Thou O Lord, are Inaccessible and Infinite.
Seeking Thy protection, O Lord, slave Nanak has crossed the dreadful world-ocean.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Sublime is the utterance of the Lord's praises.
Associating with the saints ' society, contemplate thou thy Lord, Nectar-sweet is whose relish. Pause.
Remembering the One Moveless and Eternal Lord the intoxication of worldly valuables wears off.
He who is blessed with poise and bliss and within whom unstruck melody resounds, comes not to grief again.
Sanak etc. and Brahma and the like, sing the Lord's praise and sing the Lord's praise Suk and Prahlad as well.
Meditating on the wondrous Lord, Nanak drinks the beauteous and sweet God's elixir.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Man does many millions of misdeeds.
Day and night, he is tired not of committing sins and so he can be released not ever. Pause.
He is carrying on his head, an exceedingly heavy bundle of agonising sins.
His sins are exposed in an instant, when the death's courier seizes him by the hair.
Hereafter he enters into the many existences of beast, ghost, camel and donkey.
Contemplating the Lord in the saints ' Society, the mortal suffers no blow whatever.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O blind man, thou eat lump-sums of poison.
His eyes, ears and the body are all tired and in an instant he loses his breath. Pause.
Annoying the poor, he fills his belly, but wealth goes not with him.
Committing, committing sins he regrets but he can abandon them not ever.
Inflicting a hissing blow on his head, death's courier comes and kills the slander.
O Nanak, with his dagger he cuts his ownself and wounds his own heart.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The slanderer is destroyed in the mid-stream.
The Lord Himself is the saviour of His slave and the death overtakes the infidel. Pause.
None hears what he says and he is not allowed to sit anywhere.
He suffers sorrow here, falls into hell hereafter and wanders in many existences.
In the continents and the world, he has become notorious and has obtained what he had done.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the Fearless Creator and with glee and gladness, he sings His praises.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Due to desire, one wanders in many ways.
The desire is fulfilled in no wise, and in the end the mortal is defeated. Pause.
Peace, pleasure and poise happen not, this is the way it works.
Man burns in the fire of lust and wrath and knows not what belongs to him and what to another.
The world is involved in the ocean of sorrow. O my Lord, mercifully save Thou Thy slave.
Nanak, seeks the refuge of Thine lotus feet, O Lord and is ever, ever a sacrifice unto Thee.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O sinner, who has instructed thee this wise?
Even for a moment and an instant, thou contemplate not the Lord, who has blessed thee with thy soul and body. Pause.
Thou are happy, eating, drinking and sleeping, but remembering thy Lord's name, thou feel miserable.
When thou were imprisoned in the womb of thy mother's belly. there thou wailed like a meek one.
Bound with great pride and sins, thou shall wander in many existences.
What sorrows should I count, which befall the mortal by forgetting his Lord? Peace, O Nanak is procured by realising the Lord's status.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my mother, I have grasped the protection of my Lord's feet.
Seeing the Lord's vision my soul is bewitched and my evil-intellect is washed off. Pause.
Ungraspable, Incomprehensible, High and Eternal is my Lord, His worth can be told not.
Seeing, seeing Him in water, on dry-land and fully filling all, my soul has flowered.
My Beloved is Merciful to the meek and the Enticer of my soul. Meeting with the saints, becomes manifest He.
Nanak lives by remembering and contemplating his God and is caught not in the death's calamity.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my mother, mind is intoxicated with the Name.
Beholding my Merciful Master, I am filled with bliss and peace and imbued with God's elixir my mind is inebriated. Pause.
Singing the pure praise of God, I have become immaculate and shall not go black again.
My attention is merged in the Lord's lotus feet and I have met with my Infinite God.
Holding me by my hand, God has given me everything and ha slighted my mind's lamp.
Enjoying the Name-Nectar, O Nanak, I have become detached and shall ferry across all my generations as well.
Sarang 5trh Guru.
O mother, contemplating another, save his Lord, the mortal is done to death.
Forsaking the Lord of the world, the Donor of the being, he is clung to wealth. Pause.
Forgetting the Name, he treads on another path and so falls into the terrible hell.
He is awarded various punishments, which can be counted not and wanders he from womb to womb.
They alone are men of riches and they alone the men of honour, who merge in the Lord's sanctuary.
By the Guru's grace, O Nanak, they conquer the world and come and go not again.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My crookedness, the Lord has hewed down with an axe.
With the fire of the Lord's Name, the forests of doubt are burnt off in a moment. Pause.
I am rid of lust, wrath and slander. Associating with the saints I have thrashed and driven them out.
By the Guru's grace, my invaluable human life has become fruitful and I shall lose it not in gamble, again.
The eight watches through, I sing the Lord's praises and reflect on the Perfect Lord. O Lord's praises and reflect on the Perfect Lord.
O Lord, Nanak, Thy servant, is the slave of Thine slaves and over and over again, makes obeisance unto Thee.
Sarang 5th Guru.
This Holy Book (the Adi Granth) is the abode of the Transcendent Lord.
Whosoever sings the World-Lord's praise in the society of the saints, he is blessed with the perfect Divine knowledge. Pause.
The strivers, the adepts and all the silent-sages long for the Lord, but few obtain concentration on Him.
He, on whom my Lord is merciful, his tasks are accomplished.
He, is whose heart, God, the Destroyer of fear resides, him knows the whole world.
Nanak begs this gift of Thee, O my Creator-Lord, that I may not forget Thee even for a moment and an instant.
Sarang 5th Guru.
In all the places, the rain has fallen.
Singing the God's praise with glee and gladness, the love of the Perfect Lord becomes manifest. Pause.
In four sides and ten directions God, the Ocean of water, is contained and not a place is devoid of Him.
My Perfect Lord, the sea of mercy, blesses every one with the boon of life.
True, True, True is my Lord Master and true is the saints ' congregation.
True are the persons, O Nanak, within whom wells up faith and then they wander not.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my Sire Lord, Thou are the mainstay of my vital breath.
Thou alone are my Friend, Intimate and Helper and Thou alone are my family. Pause.
Thou has placed Thy hand on my forehead and brow and I sing Thine praise meeting with the saints.
By The grace I have obtained all fruits and imbued with love I contemplate Thy Name.
Eternal is the foundation, that the True Guru has laid and it staggers not ever.
When Guru Nanak becomes merciful to me, then I am blessed with the treasure of all the comforts.
Sarang 5th Guru.
The true merchandise of the Lord's Name alone stands by me.
Singing the praise of God, the Treasure of wealth, I have earned profit and this wise remain detached in the midst of mammon. Pause.
All the sentient beings become content, meditating on their Lord.
My priceless life, I have made infinitely fruitful and so I shall enter not into existences, again.
When the Lord becomes merciful and compassionate, one meets with the society of the saints.
Nanak has obtained the wealth of God's feet and he is imbued with the Lord's love.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my mother, I am wonderstruck to see my Lord.
My soul is bewitched by the unstruck melody, wondrous is whose relish. Pause.
He, the Lord, is my Mother, Father and kinsman and my mind is blessed with His Bliss.
Singing the Lord's praise in the saints ' society, all my illusions are dispelled.
I am attached in love with the Lord's feet and my doubt and dread are all eaten up.
Slave Nanak has taken the support of One Lord and so he shall wander not in existences again.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O mother, I am wholly absorbed in the love of my Lord's feet.
Without the One Lord, I know not another I have wholly burns off my sense of duality. Pause.
Abandoning the Lord, to do aught else; that is to fall into the well of vice.
My soul is bewitched by the thirst of the Lord's vision and my Lord has pulled me out of the hell.
By the saints grace, I have met with my bliss-giving Lord and my noise of ego is stilled.
Servant Nanak is imbued with the love of his Lord and the forest of his soul and body has flowered.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O man, the false worldly affairs are of no avail.
Meeting with the saints ' society, contemplate thou thy Lord. This alone is the sublime thing in this world. Pause.
Enshrining the Lord's Name in they mind, here and hereafter, thou shall waver not ever.
Obtaining the boat of the Guru's feet by good fortune, thou shall cross the world ocean.
The Infinite Lord of all is fully-filling the ocean, the land and the sky.
Says Nanak, quaff thou the nectar of the God's Name Bitter are all other relishes.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Man wails he in pain, because,
inebriated with the great sins of worldly love and self-conceit, he contemplates not his God. Pause.
Associating with the saints, they who remember their Lord; their sins are burnt off.
Fruitful is the body and blessed the birth of those, who meet with their Lord.
The four boons and the eighteen supernatural powers; above all these are the pious saints of God.
Slave Nanak, longs for the dust of the saints feet and attached to their skirt, he is saved.
Sarang 5th Guru.
God's slaves are desirous of the God's Name.
With their mind, body and word, they long for this peace, that when shall they see the sight of their Lord, with their eyes. Pause.
O my supreme Lord Master, Thou are infinite and Thy state can be known not.
With the love of Thine lotus feet, my soul is pierced through and deeming this love to be everything, I have enshrined it in my mind.
Going through the Vedas, the Puranas and the Simritis, the holy men have uttered this true word with have their tongue.
Uttering the Lord's Name, one is emancipated, O Nanak, In vain are other stories of duality.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O fly, O fly like mammon, thou are created by the Lord.
Where there is foul smell, there you sit and taste very poisonous relishes. Pause.
Thou stay nowhere. This way of thine I have seen with my eyes.
Save the saints, thou has spared no one, The saints keep on the side of the World-Lord.
All the saints beings thou has bewitched. Without the saints no one knows thee.
Slave Nanak is imbued with the Lord's praise and fixing his mind on the Name, realises the True Lord's presence.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my mother, my noose of death is snapped.
Uttering the Lord's Name, I have obtained all the comforts and have become detached in the midst of family life. Pause.
Showing His mercy, the Lord has made me His own and within me has welled up the thirst to see His sight.
Meeting with the saints' congregation, I sing the Lord's praise and other hopes, I have, now, abandoned.
Informing me of the path, the Saint-Guru has pulled me out of the very desolate forest.
Seeing the Lord's vision, I am rid of the sins and am blessed with the jewel of His Name.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my mother, I am involved and inebriated with the love of my Lord.
Within my mind is the longing and thirst for the vision of my Beauteous Lord, no one can break this love. Pause.
The Lord is my vital-breath, honour, spouse, father, son, Kinsman, riches and everything.
Accursed is this body of bones, ordure and worms, if save God, it knows any other.
By virtue of the power of past deeds, God, the Destroyer of the pain of the poor has become merciful to me.
Nanak has sought the protection of God, the treasure and ocean of compassion and his subservience of others is ended.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Sublime is the love of (for) that Lord.
Supremely beauteous are the Lord's lotus feet. Those who meditate on them become saints. Pause.
He cherishes his Lord's vision and washes off his sins.
He is rid of birth and death and whatever sin sprouts in him, that the Lord mows out.
He, in whose destiny, it is so prewritten; such a rare person attains unto his Lord.
The utterance of the praise of the Creator-Lord, O Nanak, is the way to see the True One.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Sublime is the intellect of him, who contemplates the Lord's Name.
False are all the ostentations of him, who forgetting his God, is engrossed in another. Pause.
Meditating on the Lord in the society of saints, one's sins are dissolved.
Enshrining the Lord's lotus feet in the mind one is born and dies not again.
Showering His benediction, the Lord saves those, who have the support of His Name alone.
Ever contemplating the Lord day and night, one's countenance, sparkles in the Lord's court. O Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O bride, thou shall be honoured, honoured in thy Lord's court,
if stilling thy entire ego, thou sing God's praise meeting with the saints' congregation. Pause
Showing His mercy thy Lord shall make thee His own and by the Guru's grace, thou shall be blessed with perfect wisdom.
Reflecting on her Lord's vision she enjoys all comforts and good many joys.
She alone is ever the chaste bride, who lives near her spouse and she is renowned in ten directions.
She remains imbued with the love, love of her Beloved Lord Unto her Nanak is a sacrifice.
Sarang 5th Guru.
I have the support of Thine feet, O my Lord.
O Lord of the universe, Thou are my Friend. With Thee I have relationship and Thou alone are my Protector. Pause.
Thou are mine and I am said to be Thine, Here and hereafter, Thou alone are my Saviour.
Infinite and the Highest of the High are Thou. Rare is the one, who understands Thee by the Guru's grace, O Lord.
Untold and unuttered, Thou, O Inner-Knower, know every thing.
He whom the Lord unites with Himself; that person is approved in His court, O Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Remember thou thy God. Other deeds are of no avail.
One's ego, worldly love and desire are stilled not. The world is seized by death. Pause.
Eating, drinking, laughing and sleeping man's life passes in vain.
He wanders and burns in the womb's hell and ultimately the death destroys him.
He practises fraud and indulges in misdeeds and slandering others. Washing his hands off virtue, he is steeped in sins.
Without the True Guru, he attains not understanding and wanders in the supreme darkness of wrath and worldly love.
Taking the potion of sins, he is rendered unconscious and is therefore plundered. His creator-Lord, he cherishes not in his mind.
Inebriated with ego like an elephant, he sees not his recondite and detached Lord.
Showing His mercy, the Lord saves His saints, for they have the support of His lotus feet.
Joining his hands, Nanak has sought the protection of his Infinite Lord, the Cherisher of the world.
Sarang.5th Guru. Partal
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Utter thou the Guru's sublime word and the Lord's priceless praise.
Why do thou evil deeds?
O thee, reflect on it and see.
Dwell thou on the Guru's word and mount to thy Master's mansion.
This wise, imbued with love, thou shall greatly sport with thy Lord. Pause.
O mate, the world is like a dream,
and false is its expanse.
O mate, why are thou bewitched in the Love of mammon? Enshrine thou thy Beloved's love within thy mind.
O mate, the Lord is the embodiment of love and affection.
O mate, ever Merciful is my Master;
why thou love another, another?
Ever remain thou attached with thy Lord.
Now when she obtains the saints' society,
says Nanak, she contemplates her Lord,
and her association with the death's courier is ended.
Sarang 5th Guru.
If thou give away much gold in alms,
offer thy land in charity,
and purify and sanctify thy mind in various ways,
all of this equals not "Lord's Name"; so, O man, remain thou attached to the Lord's lotus feet. Pause.
If thou recite the four Vedas with thy tongue,
and hear with thy ears the (reciting of) eighteen Puranas and six Shashtras,
but these equal not the Divine melody of the "Lord's Name";
so, O man, remain thou clung to the Lord's lotus feet.
Thou keep fasts, say vesper-prayers, purify thyself and do good deeds.
Thou go on pilgrimages in all directions and eat not anything.
Touching no one, thou cook thy food.
Thou make a great display of thy inly-washings.
Thou burn incense and lamps in the temples. All these equal not God's Name.
O Merciful Master, hear Thou the supplication of Thy meek slave.
Bless Thou me with Thy vision, O Lord, that I may behold Thee with mine eyes. Thy Name seems sweet unto slave Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Contemplate thou thy Lord, Lord, Lord and the Omnipresent Lord shall be thy succourer. Pause.
Clinging to the saints ' feet I have abandoned lust, wrath and avarice. The Guru-God has become merciful unto me and I have obtained what was writ in my destiny.
My doubt and worldly love are dispelled, the blind bonds of mammon are broken, I see the Lord fully-filling all and now, no one is an enemy of mine.
My Lord is mightily pleased with me and rid of the pain of birth and death. Clinging to the saints feet, Nanak sings the praises of his Lord.
Sarang 5th Guru.
With thy mouth, utter thou thy Lord Master's Name and thy Lord Master, enshrine thou within thy mind, O man. Pause.
To hear the Lord's Name with the ears and to embrace the Lord's meditation, are the true deeds of expiation to destroy myriads of sins.
Seek thou the saints 'refuge and forget all other habits.
Ever, ever love thou the God's feet, the purest of the pure.
They rid the Lord's slave his fear and burn off his sins and demerits.
Emancipated are the ones who utter the Lord's name and those who hear it. They who practise the Name are not born again.
The Lord's Name is the quintessence of all. Nanak reflects on the 'Real Thing'.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Ask for the Lord's Name and His meditation from the saints and abandon all other affairs. Pause.
Contemplate and love thou thy God and ever sing thou the praise of the World-Lord.
Long thou for the dust of the God's slave and the Lord shall bless thee therewith.
The Lord's Name is the joy of joys and the abode of all the mirths and comforts. Meditating on the Lord, the Inner-knower, One is rid of the fear of death.
The refuge of the Lord's feet alone, destroys all the sufferings of the world.
The saints congregation is like a boat, wherewith one crosses the world ocean, O Nanak.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Seeing the vision of my Guru, I sing the praises of my love.
When I am attached with the saints ' society then this mind of mine is rid of the five demons. Pause.
All that is seen, shall go not with thee, O man. So abandon thou thy self-conceit and worldly attachment.
Love thou thy One Lord and be embellished meeting with the saints' guild.
I have obtained God, the Treasure of virtues and all my hopes are fulfilled.
Nanak's mind is in bliss. The Guru has shattered the strong fortress.
Sarang 5th Guru.
My soul has become detached,
seeking the Lord's vision. Pause.
Serving the holymen and the pious persons, I contemplate my Love within my mind.
Seeing my groom, the Embodiment of bliss, I shall mount to His mansion.
Abandoning everything, I perform His service and seek His refuge.
Nanak, the Lord has hugged me to His bosom and I shall now propitiate my Guru.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Such has become my inmost state, now.
My merciful Master alone knows it. Pause.
Abandoning my mother and father, I have sold off my soul to the saints.
I have lost my caste, birth and lineage and sing I the praise of my Lord God.
I have snapped the bonds with men and my kinsmen and now perform the service, service of my Lord alone.
Nanak, such is the instruction of my Guru, that I should serve my God alone.
Sarang 5th Guru.
O my Fascinating Beloved, Beloved, thou alone are the cherisher of the world.
Thou are contained in worms, elephants, stones and other beings and sustain all of them. Pause.
Thou are not far, but are ever near. Thou pervade all and are with all.
Beauteous and the 'Home of elixir are Thou, O Lord.
Amongst castes, Thou has no caste and amongst families no family.
Says Nanak, Thou alone are my Merciful Master.
Sarang 5th Guru.
Mammon exhibits wondrous plays and yokes one to sin. She entices away even the moon and the sun.
The noisy evils well up from the tinkling of the ankle-bells of beauteous mammon. She wanders about making many dalliances and beguiles everyone except the Lord. Pause.
It is clinging to the three worlds and through the imperfect deeds its stroke can be endured not. Engrossed in the blind worldly pursuits, the mortals are inebriated and are tossed about as on the high ocean.
The God's saintly slaves escape from the mammon's clutches and the Lord snaps their death's noose. O Nanak, meditate thou on Him whose Name is the purifier of sinners.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Rag Sarang 9th Guru.
O man, save God, none is an helper of thine.
Who has a mother, father son and wife? Who is any one's brother?. Pause.
Of all the wealth, land and property that thou consider as yours,
nothing shall depart with thee when thy body is deserted, why cling thou to these?
He, who is Merciful to the meek, and ever the Destroyer of pain; with Him thou increase not thy love.
Says Nanak, the whole world is false like the nightly dream.
Sarang 9th Guru.
O my soul, why cling thou with sins?
In this world, no one is allowed to stay. One comes and another goes. Pause.
Who has body and wealth? Who has property? With whom should one cultivate love?
Whatever comes to view, that all shall pass away like the shade of a cloud.
Abandon thy ego, grasp the protection of the saints and thou shall be emancipated in a moment.
O slave Nanak, without the Lord's meditation, there is no peace even in dream.
Sarang 9th Guru.
Why, O man, waste thy life?
Thou are engrossed in the pride of riches and the pleasures of sins and seek not thy Lord's protection. Pause.
This world is all a dream, so why are thou coveted on beholding it?
Every thing, that is created, all that shall perish. Nothing is allowed to stay here.
This false body, thou deem as true, O man, In this way, thou has bound thyself.
O serf Nanak, he alone is emancipated person, who applies his mind to the Lord's meditation.
Sarang 9th Guru.
With my heart, I have not ever sung my God's praise.
Night and day, I remain under the way of sins and do what pleases my mind. Pause.
With mine ears, I hear not my Guru's instruction and remain involved with another's woman.
I greatly run for slandering others and even though instructed, am instructed not.
How should I describe my deeds; the way by which I have wasted my life.
Says Nanak, in me are all demerits. Save Thou me, O Lord, I have entered Thine sanctuary.
Rag Sarang Ashtpadis. 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Without my God, how can I live, O my mother?
Hail, hail unto Thee, O Lord of the Universe, I ask for Thine praise. Without Thee, O my God, I can live not. Pause.
I, Thy bride, O Lord, am thirsty after Thy vision's that and I look towards Thee, the whole night.
My soul is merged in my Master the Spouse of Lakhshmi, The Lord knows the pain of others.
Without God my body is afflicted with anxiety and pain. Through the Guru's word, attain I unto my God.
O my Reverend God Lord, be Thou merciful and take pity on me, that I may remain blended with Thee.
O my soul, walk thou along such a path, that thy mind be attached to the Guru's feet.
Singing the praise of the Fascinating Lord, I am wonder-struck and am easily absorbed in the Fear-free Lord.
Ever-stable is the love of those, in whose mind the Name abides. It diminishes not, nor can it be evaluated.
Without the Name, every one is a pauper. The True Guru has imparted this understanding unto me.
Hear, O mate, my Beloved is my vital-breath. The demons have all died by taking poison.
When this love welled up, since then it is the same. Imbued with this live, I have become pleasing to my Lord's mind.
In profound concentration, I am ever attached to the love of my God I live by singing the Lord's praise.
Imbued with the Guru's word, I have become detached and in meditative mood, I bide in my very home.
Supremely delicious and sweet is the Name-Nectar. In my very home, I have found God, the Embodiment of quintessence.
Wherever, Thou, O Lord, keep my mind, there it abides now, Such an understanding I have obtained from my Guru.
Sanak, Sanandan, Brahma and Indra are imbued with the Lord's meditation and so the Lord is pleased with them.
Nanak, without God, I can live not even for an instant. Greatness abides in God's Name.
Sarang 1st Guru.
Without God, how can my soul be comforted?
Through Him, the sins of the millions of ages are destroyed and implanting His True Name within, one is emancipated. Pause.
Banishing wrath and burning ego and worldly love, ever freshly-coloured love has welled up within me.
Begging alms at the door of the Immaculate Lord God, my comrade, all other fears of mine are dispelled
Shedding my mercurial nature, I have obtained my God, the Destroyer of dread and am attuned to the One Name.
Tasting the Lord's elixir, my thirst is quenched and by very good destiny, my Lord has united me with Himself.
My mind's empty tank is now irrigated and fully-filled with my God's Nectar and through the Guru's instruction, I have seen the True Lord.
Through hearty love, I am imbued with the Name of the Immaculate Lord, who is compassionate, since the primordial times.
The 'Fascinating Lord has fascinated my mind and by good destiny I am attuned to Him.
Reflecting on the True Lord I am rid of sins and sufferings and my mind has become pure in His love.
Deep and Unfathomable is He the Lord, who is the ocean and mine of jewels and none else is worthy of worship.
I meditate on the Lord, the Destroyer of doubt and dread and know not any other.
Subduing my mind, I have realised the pure status and am greatly imbued with the God's elixir.
Without One Lord, I know not another. The True Guru has imparted this understanding unto me.
He is Inaccessible and Incomprehensible, who has no Master and is Unborn. I know the One Lord, by the Guru's instruction.
Being filled to the brim, my soul now wavers not and through the mind, my mind is satisfied.
By the Guru's grace, I describe the Indescribable One and utter what the Lord makes me utter.
O Nanak, my Master is merciful to the meek. Without my Lord, I know not any other.
Sarang 3rd Guru. Ashtpadis
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O my soul, all magnificence is in the Lord's Name.
Without my God, I know not another. Through the God's Name, I have obtained emancipation and loftiness. Pause.
Through the Guru's word, I am attuned to my Lord, the Destroyer of dread and the slyer of the death's myrmidon.
By the Guru's grace, I have realised my peace-giving God and easily remain merged in Him.
The Immaculate Lord's Name is the feed of His saints and the Lord's praise is their wear.
They abide in their God and obtain esteem in the Lord's Court.
False is the intellect of the ego centric not the Lord's unutterable story.
By the Guru's instruction, the Moveless Lord, abides in man's mind and sweet and true becomes his speech.
The Lord's Name becalms his mind's waves and his tongue acquires peaceful disposition.
Ever remain thou united with thy True Guru, who is attuned ton his Lord.
If man dies of the Guru's word, then is he emancipated and fixes his mind with the Lord's feet.
God is like an ocean, ever immaculate is whose water. Whosoever bathes in it, he is easily embellished.
They who meditate on their Lord are imbued with His love and their ego and desire are stilled.
The pure Lord is permeating there within and amongst all they see the Pervading God, the Enemy of ego.
O Lord, Thy slaves, who are dyed with the True Name and are pleasing to thy mind are performing Thy service.
The false bride who, in this world, is involved in duality and discriminates not between virtues and vices mounts not to her Master's mansion.
If she utters the Indescribable True Name and the True Gurbani, the Lord unites her with Himself.
Nanak, the true persons, who utter the Lord's Name, are absorbed in the True Lord.
Sarang 3rd Guru.
O my soul, supremely sweet is God's Name.
It is the Destroyer of the sins and fears of millions of births. By the Guru's grace, the Unique Lord is seen. Pause.
When the True God becomes pleasing to man' mind, myriads over myriads of his sins are eradicated.
Without God I see not any other. The True Guru has revealed to me the One Lord.
They, within whose mind the wealth of the Lord's love abides, remain easily absorbed in Him.
They, who are imbued with the Name; they assume deep red dye and are naturally steeped in the Lord's sublime love.
Contemplating the Lord my tongue is absorbed in bliss and embracing His love has become red.
I have realised the Lord's Immaculate Name so my mind is satiated and comforted.
Of reading, reading are tired all the men of letters and silence and the sectarians have grown weary of wandering and wearing religious grabs.
Reflecting on the True Name, I have obtained the pure Lord, by the Guru's grace.
Shaking off comings and goings, I am imbued with Truth and the True Name is pleasing to my mind.
Who has eradicated his self-conceit from within by serving the True Guru, obtains everlasting peace.
Through the True Name wells up the melody of celestial bliss and the mind is attuned to the True Lord.
By the Guru's grace the Immaculate Name of the Unapproachable and Unperceivable Lord is enshrined in the mind.
In the One Lord, the whose world is contained and some rare one understands the one Lord.
If one dies by the Guru's word, then he comes to know everything and night and day realises the One Lord.
That man alone, on whom the Lord casts Him merciful glance, understands Him, nothing else can be said and uttered.
Nanak, ever detached are they, who are imbued with the Name. They enshrine affection for their Lord alone.
Sarang 3rd Guru.
O my soul, Ineffable is the gospel of God.
That man alone, who is blessed with the God's grace obtains it. By the Guru's grace, rare is the one, who understands it. Pause.
The Lord is deep, Unfathomable and an Ocean of virtues. Him I have realised by the Guru's word.
Through duality, whosoever does worldly deeds in various ways; without the Name, he is but a mad man.
He, who bathes in the Lord's Name; that man alone is immaculate. He becomes not dirty ever again.
Without the Name, the entire world is dirty and wandering in duality, it loses its honour.
what should I seize upon, what should I amass or abandon? Of this I have no understanding.
O my Revered Lord, he, to whom Thou are compassionate and show Thine mercy; Thy Name becomes his succourer.
The True Lord is the True Giver and the Destiny scribe. He, whom He loves; him he yokes to His Name.
He alone understands, through the Guru, whom He Himself instructs.
Seeing even the Lord's wonders, this soul contemplates. Him not, This world is subject to coming and going.
Whosoever serves the True Guru; he alone realises the Lord and obtains the door of salvation.
They who see the Lord's court, spoil not their human life ever. The True Guru has imparted this understanding into me.
They practise truth, self-control, pious way of life and good deeds and cease their comings and goings.
They alone practise truth, standing at the True Lord's door, who lean of the True God, by the Guru's grace.
The egocentrics stray in the doubt of duality; they know not the Lord's meditation.
The Lord Himself blesses with His meditation and creating the creation, Himself beholds it.
Nanak, those persons alone are approved, whose honour the Lord Himself accepts.
Sarang 5th Guru. Ashtpadis.
There is but one God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O Lord of the world, Thine glory I have seen.
O my pervading God, the Lord of crown and throne. Thou are the Doer and the Cause and the creator and the Destroyer of all. Pause.
The dukes, nobles and kings turn paupers. False ostentations make they.
My sovereign is ever stable. His praises all the hearts sing.
O saints hear ye the praises of the Sovereign. I utter them as it lies in my power.
My Beneficent Lord is inestimable, the great Monarch and the Highest of the high.
He has stringed the whole world with breath and has kept the fire alone with the wood.
He has kept the water and the earth together and no one bears enmity with the other.
In every heart, the King's gospel is current and in every home, there is zeal for Him.
At first He provided sustenance and afterwards created all the creatures.
Whatever He does, That He does of Himself. Who has ever given Him counsel?
Making various effort we exhibit displays, but it is through the Guru's true instruction, that reality is realised.
Making them His own, God saves. His saints and blesses them with the glory of His Name.
Whosoever shows disrespect to the Lord's slave; Him the Lord destroys.
They who associate with the saints ' society; their sins are all washed off and they are emancipated.
Seeing them God becomes merciful and they cross the dreadful world-ocean.
My God, I am insignificant and low, and Thou are the great Lord. What power have I to reflect on Thee?
O Lord, seeing the sight of the Guru's Nanak's mind and body become cool and he is blessed with the support of Thy Name.
Sarang 5th Guru. Ashtpadis.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
On man, hear thou the Gospel of the Unapproachable and Unfathomable Lord.
Wondrous is the Court of the Transcendent Lord. Pause.
Ever, ever make thou obeisance unto thy True Guru.
By the Guru's grace sing thou the praise of the Infinite Lord.
The Divine light shall shine in thy mind,
and thy spiritual ignorance shall be dispelled with the collyrium of gnosis.
Such is the Lord, to whose expanse, there is no limit.
His glory is boundless and infinite.
Many are His wondrous plays which can be counted not.
Both in weal and woe, He is not.
Millions of Brahmas sing His praise through the Vedas.
Millions of Shivas sit and fix their attention on Him.
With a particle of the Lord's power, millions of persons become His prophets.
Millions of Indras stand at the Lord's door.
Myriads are winds, fires and waters.
Myriads are the oceans, jewels, curd and milk,
Myriads are the suns, the moons and the stars.
Myriads are goddesses and gods of many kinds.
Myriads are the earths and millions elysian cows.
Myriads are miraculous trees and myriads they, in whose mouth is the flute.
Myriads are skies and myriads under worlds.
Myriads of supreme persons contemplate their Lord.
There are millions of Shastras, Simritis and Puranas.
In millions of way men discourse upon Him.
Millions of listeners hear the praise of God, the Treasure of virtues.
The IIIustrious Lord is fully-filling all the beings.
There are countless the righteous judges and countless the gods of wealth.
There is countless gods of water and countless mountains of gold.
There are countless a thousand-hooded serpents, who utter God's new Names.
They know not the limit of the Lofty Lord.
Millions are the universes and millions their parts.
Millions are forms, colours and solar systems.
Millions are gardens and millions of fruits and roots.
Of Himself, the Lord is the mind and of Himself, the matter.
There are millions of ages, days and nights.
There are millions of creations and millions of deluges.
There are millions of beings in His Home.
The Omnipresent Lord is filling all the places.
Millions are His powers, which can be known not.
In myriads of ways, God, the King, plays.
Myriads are the beauteous melodies, which sing of the Lord.
Myriads of unmanifest scribes are seen there.
The Lord is the Highest of the high, with whom abide His saints.
Throughout the eight watches, they sing His praises with love.
Millions of celestial strains sing of the Lord's supreme bliss.
Of that relish there is no limit and end.
he is the True Lord and true is His abode.
The Lord is the Highest of the high, Immaculate and Detached,
His craftsmanship, He Himself knows.
He Himself is pervading all hearts.
The Merciful Master is the Treasure of compassion,
they, who contemplate Him, O Nanak, become exceedingly happy.
Sarang chhant 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
See thou amongst all, God, the giver of fearlessness.
The Detached Lord is filling all hearts.
Thou, O Lord, are fully pervading every heart, Thou has fashioned the world and created the creation from within Thee, like the waves in water.
Thou enjoy the sweetness and relish of all hearts. Like Thee there is not any other second.
The Lord Master of one colour plays in each and every colour and is known through the saints ' society.
Like the fish in water, Nanak is absorbed in the Lord's vision and sees Him, the Blesser of fearlessness amongst all.
What praise and what commendation should I attribute to my Perfect Lord?
He is filling all places.
The Soul-charmer, Perfect Lord looks beauteous in every heart. When he withdraws, then one becomes ashes.
Meeting with the saint, why contemplate not thy Lord, O man? In an instant and a moment, thy time of death is to arrive.
Of all the property, wealth and whatever is seen, naught shall go with thee.
Says Nanak, remember thou thy Lord God what praise and what commendation can I attribute to my God?
I ask the saints, as to what my Lord is like?
I surrender my soul to him, who gives me His news.
Give thou me His news and tell me what kind is my sire Master and where He, the Bewitcher, does reside?
In all the bodies, places, interspaces and countries, He, the peace-giving Perfect Lord is pervading.
He is free from bonds and is united with all hearts, I can say not, who else is like my Lord?
Seeing His wondrous plays, Nanak's soul is fascinated. I, the meek one, ask as to of what kind is my Lord?
Showing His mercy, the Lord has come to His slave.
Blessed is the mind, wherein are enshrined the Lord's feet.
Through the saints ' society, the Lord's feet are enshrined in man's heart and the darkness of his spiritual ignorance is dispelled,
His mind is illumined and enraptured, and he home and he is blessed with supreme bliss and poise.
His pain hastens away, peace abides in his home and he is blessed with supreme bliss and poise.
Says Nanak, I have attained unto my Perfect Master, who, in his mercy, has come to his slave.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Var of Sarang 4th Guru. To be sung to the Tune of Mahma-Hasna.
Slok 2nd Guru.
The body-roofed mind's house is locked with the lock of mammonish attachment and it s key is with the Guru.
Nanak, without the Guru, the mind's door is opened not, since the key is in no one else's hand.
1st Guru.
The Lord is pleased not by making music, tuning musical instrument and reading the Vedas.
Through wisdom, knowledge and Yoga, He is pleased not.
The Lord is pleased not by ever felling sorrow.
He is pleased not with beauty, wealth and revelments.
He is pleased not by wandering naked at the places of pilgrimage.
By giving gifts and alms, the Lord is softened not.
Sitting outside alone in wilderness, He is softened not.
Fighting to death as a warrior in a battle, the Lord is melted not.
Becoming the dust of the feet of many, He is melted not.
The account of hearty love alone is writ there.
O Nanak, if one utters the True Name, the Lord is supremely pleased.
1st Guru.
People reflect on nine grammars, six Shastras and the six chapters of the Vedas,
and night and day utter the Mahabharta of eighteen divisions.
Even they can find not Thy limit, O Lord.
Bereft of the Name, how can one be emancipated?
Abiding in the Navel, Brahma knows not the Lord's end.
By the Guru's grace, Nanak, realises the Lord's name.
Pauri.
The Immaculate Lord, who created His ownself, is all by Himself.
He Himself has created the whole play of the entire world.
He Himself has created the three qualities and increased the love of worldly valuables.
They alone are delivered by the Guru's grace, who love the Lord's will.
Nanak, the True Lord is pervading amongst all and all are contained in the True Lord.
Slok 2nd Guru.
God Himself creates and Himself keeps the creatures in different places.
Who should we call bed, when all have one and the same Lord?
The Lord of all is One and the same, He jokes each to his task and watches over him.
Some the Lord blesses with more and some with less, but no one departs unrewarded.
The mortals come naked, they depart naked and in-between they make ostentations.
Nanak, man knows not the Lord's will nor what, work, the Lord shall make him do hereafter.
1st Guru.
Creating the miscellaneous beings, the Lord sends them and the so miscellaneously created beings, He ultimately takes away.
He Himself establishes and Himself disestablishes and makes men assume various forms.
As many beings as walk about as beggars, to so many, He Himself blesses with His alms.
In account man utters and in account he walks. Then what for does he make excessive pretensions?
This alone is the real wisdom, which the Lord approves and this is what Nanak proclaims and preaches.
Only on one's deeds, justice is administered. If some body says and utters aught else; that is all a prattle.
Pauri.
The great God has created the world play and through virtues, He becomes manifest.
Whosoever for ever utters Guru's word; he enshrines the Lord in his mind.
He is rid of mammon, his doubt is dispelled and the Lord's Light shines within him.
They, in whose treasure virtue is, meet with the Omnipotent Guru.
Nanak, they merge in the Lord's Name and easily remain blended with it.
Slok 2nd Guru.
The traders come from God, the Merchant. He sends their destiny with them.
On the basis of the writ, the order is issued and each one takes care of the goods, he is endowed with.
The traders have purchased their merchandise and have packed up their cargo.
Some depart after earning profit and some go losing even their capital.
No one asks for less. Whom should we acclaim then?
Nanak, the Lord looks with favour on those, who have kept their stock-in-trade intact.
1st Guru.
Uniting together, the soul and body separate and having separated they unite again.
Mortal lives, lives to die and he dies to be born again,
He becomes the father of many, the son of many and the Guru and the disciple of many.
One can make not the count of the future and the past. What know I what I was in the past and what I shall be in the past and what I shall be in future?
All the doings and deeds that one does, are recorded. This is what the Creator has been doing and shall continue to do.
The mind-ward dies and the Guru-ward is saved and on him is the mercy of the Merciful Master, O Nanak.
Pauri.
The egocentric wanders in duality and doubt and is bewitched by another's love.
He practises falsehood and deception and utters falsehood.
The love and affection of sons and wife is misery all in all.
Bound at the door of the death's courier, he is punished and rambles and roams in existences.
The egocentric loses his human life, while Nanak loves his God.
Slok 2nd Guru.
They who are blessed with the glory of Thy Name, O Lord; they remain imbued with bliss in their mind.
Nanak, there is but one Name-Nectar. Any other Nectar there is not.
Nanak, the elixir of the Name is within the mind and is obtained by the Guru's grace.
They alone quaff it with love, who are so destined by the Primal Lord.
2nd Guru.
Why praise the created one, Praise thou Him, who creates all.
Nanak, without the One Lord, there is not another donor.
Praise thou the Creator-Lord, who has created the universe.
Eulogise thou the Beneficent Lord, who gives sustenance to all.
Nanak, the Lord, brimful is whose treasure, is ever eternal Himself.
Praise and eulogise thou Him, who has no end and limit.
Pauri.
Treasure of bliss is the God's Name, Serving it, peace is obtained.
I utter the Name of the Immaculate Lord, that I may go to my home with honour.
The Supreme Guru's word is the Lord's name and this Name, I enshrine in my mind.
Dwelling on the True Guru, the mind bird comes under one's sway.
Nanak, if He, the Lord becomes merciful, the mortal comes to embrace love for His Name.
Shalok 2nd Guru.
How should one speak to Him, who, of Himself, knows everything?
Supreme is He, the Lord whose warrant can be challenged not.
He is the Lord, subject to whose writ, depart the king, nobles and commanders.
Whatever pleases Him, O Nanak; that alone is the good deed.
Nothing is in their hands, who have to walk subject to the Lord's command.
When the Lord's order is issued, they arise and take the road.
As is the order, writ in the deed, so do they act.
O Nanak, the mortals come, when they are sent by God and depart, when they are sent by God and depart, when called back.
2nd Guru.
They, whom the Lord blesses with His praise; they alone are the Lord of the treasure.
They who are blessed with the key; they alone are the Lord of the treasure.
The treasures from whom virtues well up; they alone are approved by the Lord.
They alone are blessed with God's grace, O Nanak, who bear the standard of His Name.
Pauri.
Immaculate and pure in the Lord's Name, hearing which peace is obtained.
Hearing, hearing it, one enshrines it in his mind, but rare is the one who realises it.
Down-sitting and up-standing I forget not that Trust of the true Lord.
The saints have the Name's support alone and through the Name, they are blest with peace.
Nanak, the Lord is pervading our soul and body and by the Guru's grace, He, the Lord is realised.
Slok 1st Guru.
Nanak, if man puts hearty love in the hind scale, then alone can he be deemed to be of the full weight.
Nothing can equal the utterance of the one Name, which making mortal perfect, unites him with the Perfect Lord.
To call the Lord grand, carries great weight.
Light are other intellects and light other utterances.
The weight of the earth, the ocean and the mountain,
how can this be weighed by a goldsmith,
with his balance using the weights of a tola, 1/12 of a tola and a jequitery?
When questioned, t he satisfies the questioner, O Nanak.
Blind is the running about of the blind fools.
The more they say, utter and talk, the more they expose themselves.
1st Guru.
Difficult it is to utter the Lord's Name and difficult it is to hear it. The Lord's Name can be uttered not with the month.
Some, the low and the high, with their mouth, day and night speak of God and utter His Name.
If God be in some form, then something may be seen, but His form and kind can be seen not.
The Creator-Lord does all the deeds and establishes He all places, high and low.
It is difficult to utter the Lord's Name, O Nanak, It can be uttered not with the mouth.
Pauri.
Hearing the Name, the mind is pleased and through the Name, one is comforted.
Hearing the Lord's Name, the soul is satiated and all ailments are eradicated.
Hearing the Lord's Name, man is renowned and through the name, he is blessed with glory.
Through the Name is all honour and caste, and through the Name, salvation is obtained.
O Nanak, by the Guru's grace, the Name is meditated upon and love for it is embraced.
Slok 1st Guru.
There is no impurity in music and nor there is any impurity in the Vedas.
There is no impurity in the different phases of the moon and the sun.
There is no impurity in corn, nor there is no impurity in ablution.
There is no impurity in the rain, which falls at all places.
There is no impurity in the earth, nor there is any impurity in the water.
No impurity is contained in the air too.
Nanak, there is no virtue, in the man, without the Guru.
Nanak, turning away one's face from the Lord, the mouth is defiled.
1st Guru.
Nanak, pure is the mouthful of water, if some one fully knows how to gargle it.
For the man of wisdom of mouthful is of the gnosis and for the yogi of chastity.
For the Brahman, the mouthful is of contentment and for the householder the truth and charity.
For the King the mouthful is of justice and for the learned man of the true reflection.
With water, the mind is washed not, but by drinking it with mouth, one's thirst is quenched.
The water is the birth-giver of creation and ultimately the water destroys it all.
Pauri.
Hearing the Name, all the supernatural powers are obtained and wealth follows the mortal.
Hearing the Lord's Name, man is blest with nine treasures and obtains his heart desired boons.
Hearing the Name, one earns contentment and mammon worships one's feet.
Hearing the Name, poise wells up and one easily obtains peace.
By the Guru's instruction, God's Name is attained and the mortal sings His praises.
Slok 1st Guru.
In pain, man is born, in pain he dies and in pain, he deals with the world.
Pain and pain, he is said to suffer hereafter the more he reads and utters, the more he wails.
For him the packages of pain are united and no comfort emerges out of them.
In pain, the mortal burns and in pain he departs wailing.
Imbued with the Lord's praise, O Nanak, one's soul and body are reverdured.
With the fire of pain, the mortals are scorched to death, but pain is also the cure of all ills.
1st Guru.
Nanak, the worldly revelments are but dust, They are altogether dust of dust and ashes.
The dust of dust, the mortal earns and with dust, he soils his body.
When the soul is taken out of the body m it goes, sated with the dust of sins.
Hereafter, when the mortal is asked the account, he receives ten times the more dust.
Pauri.
Hearing the Lord's Name, man is blessed with purity and self-control and death's courier comes not near him.
Hearing the Lord's Name, one mind is illumined and one's darkness is dispelled.
Hearing the Lord's name, one realises one's ownself and attains the profit of the Name.
Hearing the Lord's Name, the sins are washed off and one meets with the Immaculate True Lord.
O Nanak, hearing the Lord's Name, man's countenance becomes bright, It is through the Guru's grace, that he contemplates the Name.
Slok 1st Guru.
In thy house, thou keep the idol of God, with all other gods.
Thou, O Pandit, you wash it and worship it.
Thou offer it saffron, sandal and flowers.
Falling, falling at its feet, thou greatly propitiate it.
Begging, begging of men, thou wear and eat.
For thine dark deeds, thou shalt receive unforeseen punishment.
The idol gives not the hungry and saves not the dying.
It is a blind wrangling of the society of the blind.
1st Guru.
All understandings, all yogas and all the Vedas and the Puranas,
All the deeds, all penances and all the songs and wisdom,
All intellects, all ingenuities all holies and all places,
All kingdoms, all commands, all joys and all delicacies,
All mortals, all deities, all unions and all inclination,
All the worlds, all the continents and all the beings of the universe,
All of them, the Lord drives according to His will and His pen flows as are our deeds.
Nanak, True is the His congregation and His court.
Pauri.
Worshipping the Lord's Name, peace wells up and through the Name, one is emancipated.
Adoring the Lord's Name, honour is obtained and He, the Lord is enshrined in the mind.
Contemplating the Name, the terrible world-ocean is crossed and no hindrance befalls one.
Believing in the Name, the Lord's path becomes manifest and through the Name, one's mind is all illuminated.
Nanak, meeting with the True Guru, the Name is meditated upon. But he alone obtains the Name, whom He, the Lord, blesses with it.
Slok 1st Guru.
Man walks headlong through the continents of the world. He contemplates the Lord, standing on one foot.
Controlling his wind-like mercurial mind, he remembers God in his mind, he remembers God in his mind, lowering his head below his neck.
On whom does he lean? Whom does he want to force?
How can it be said, O Nanak, to whom will the Creator Lord bless with his bounties?
The Lord keeps all under His command but the fool displays his ownself.
1st Guru.
If myriads over myriads and millions, millions, times I say that God is, my God is.
And with my mouth I utter for ever and aye and there be no end to this utterance,
and so great be my tenacity that I tire not of uttering and be held not in check.
This, O Nanak, is but a particle, a trice and an iota of God's glory. To claim, to say more than this is but a sin.
Pauri.
Adoring the Lord's Name, the entire lineage and all generations are redeemed.
He, who adores the Name and enshrines it in his mind; through his association all are redeemed.
They who adore the Name, who hear the Name and whose tongue is delighted with the Name' They all are emancipated.
He who believes in the Name and who attaches his mind with the Name; he is rid of sorrow and hunger.
Nanak, they alone praise the Lord's Name, whom the Lord makes meet the Guru.
Slok 1st Guru.
All nights, all days, all lunar days and all week days;
All seasons, all months, the entire earth and all its loads;
All waters all winds, all the fires and underworlds';
All spheres, all divisions of earth and all worlds, men and forms;
How great is the Lord's command, over them all can be known not, nor can the Lord's deeds be described.
Uttering, uttering, uttering the Lord's praises and deliberating over them good many have grown wary.
Says Nanak, the poor fools, can find not even an iota of the Lord's limit.
1st Guru.
If I walk on my eyes and see all the forms this wise;
If I ask the divines and men of tellers and ask also the reflectors of the Vedas;
If I question gods, men, warriors and the prophets created by the Lord;
If I consult all the perfect persons, wrapt in trance and go and see the Lord's court.
Then would I know, that hereafter the True, Dauntless, Fear-fear and Sublime Lord accepts only the True Name.
False, immature and shallow is all other intellect. Blind is the reflection of the blind person.
Nanak, by the Lord's grace, man is blessed with His meditation and by His grace he is ferried across.
Pauri.
Believing in the Lord's Name, evil-intellect is eradicated and wisdom becomes manifest.
Believing in the Name, ego is eliminated and one is rid of all the ailments.
Believing in the Name, the Name wells up in man and he easily obtains peace.
Believing in the Name, tranquillity wells up in one and the Name is enshrined in one's mind.
Nanak, the Lord's Name is the jewel and God is meditated upon by the Guru's grace.
Slok 1st Guru.
If there be any other equal of Thine, O Lord, I may utter Thy praise before him.
I praise Thee before Thee, O Lord. Through Thine Name, I, the blind one have become a seer.
Whatever is uttered in Thy praise, O Lord, that is through words. Uttering Thy praise with love, one is embellished.
Nanak, the greatest thing to say is this, that all glory is in Thee, O Lord.
1st Guru.
When man was nothing, what service did he perform then? When born what work does he do?
All affairs the Creator Lord does, and watches He all over and over again.
Whether we keep mum and whether we ask, the beneficent Lord continues to bless us with His bounties.
The Lord alone is the Giver. All others are but mumpers, Going round the world, I have seen this.
Nanak knows it like this that ever alive is his beneficent Lord.
Pauri.
Contemplating the Name, understanding grows and through the Name, one's intellect is illumined.
Contemplating the Name, man utters God's praise and through the Name, he sleeps in peace.
Contemplating the Name, doubt is dispelled and one suffers not sorrow again.
Contemplating the Name, man sings his Lord's praise and his sinful mind is cleansed.
Nanak through the Perfect Guru, the Name is contemplated, He alone obtains the Name, whom He, the Lord blesses with it.
Slok 1st Guru.
Man reads the Shastras, the Vedas and the Puranas.
Though he utters them but he understands them not.
If man comprehends them, then alone can he realise the Lord.
Says Nanak, the mortal shall, then no more cry in pain.
1st Guru.
When I am Thine, O Lord, then everything is mine. Where ego is not, there Thou are.
Thou Thyself are All-powerful and Thyself the Listener In the string of Thy power, Thou has strung the whole world.
Thou Thyself send the beings into the World and Thyself recall them. Creating, creating the creation, Thou behold it.
Nanak, True is the Lord and True is His Name and it is through the True Name, that one is accepted by the Primal Lord.
Pauri.
Unknowable is the Name of the Pure Lord. How can one know it?
The Immaculate Name is with the mortal. How can it be obtained, O my brother?
The Immaculate Name abides with-in all and is contained in all places.
Through the Perfect Guru, man procures the Name and the Guru makes it manifest in his very mind.
Nanak, by the mercy of the Merciful Master, man meets with the Guru, O brother'.
Slok 1st Guru.
In this age of darkness, men have faces like dogs and carrion is their food.
They bark as they utter, utter falsehood and they are rid of the thought of piety.
They who posses no honour while alive, shall have an evil repute after death.
What is destined takes place, O Nanak and what the creator does, that alone comes to pass.
1st Guru.
Women have become divines and men have become hunters.
Humility, self-control, piety have run away from them and they eat the indigestible food.
Modesty has left for her home and rising up, honour too has gone with her.
Nanak, the Lord alone is True. Search thou not for another true one.
Pauri.
Thou smear thy body with ashes from without, but within thee is inky darkness.
Thou has a patched coat and a wallet and wear many religious garbs, but thou are evil-minded and proud.
Thou recite not the Lord's Name and has extended thy mind in the love of mammon.
Within thee is avarice and doubt and thou wander around like a fool.
Thou remember not the Lord's Name and has lost thy game in the gamble, O Nanak.
Slok 1st Guru.
One may love lacs of men and live for lacs of years, what are these pleasures and what these ambitions?
Parting with them, separation becomes like poison and joy departs in an instant.
If man eats sweets for a hundred years, even then he shall have to eat the bitter at last.
then he remembers not the eating of the sweets and bitterness permeates his body.
The sweet and the bitter both are diseases.
Partaking of them, O Nanak, the mortals are ultimately ruined.
To bother, worry and die in them is the useless wrangling.
yet men draw near them and bothering and worrying in them are ruined in the end.
1st Guru.
The clothes and wooden furniture are dyed with various dyes.
The houses are plastered milk-white with lime.
With relishes and pleasures, man sports with joy.
From Thee, O Groom, they receive admonitions.
Deeming it sweet they eat the bitter.
That bitter thing grows disease in the body.
If, even afterwards, they are blessed with the sweet Name,
then shall depart their bitterness, O mother.
Nanak, he alone is blessed with the Lord's sweetness,
by the Guru's grace, who is destined to receive it.
Pauri.
They, in whose mind is the filth of deception; they wash them-selves from without.
They practise falsehood and deception and their falsehood becomes apparent.
What is within them, that comes forth and can be concealed not by concealing.
Attached to falsehood and avarice man is cast into existences again.
Nanak, what man sows, that he eats, he obtains what the Creator has destined for him.
Slok 2nd Guru.
The Vedas have brought legends and tales and they expound vice and virtue.
What men give as gratis they receive and what they receive as gratis they give. According to their deeds, they are born in hell or heaven.
Reading them the world wanders in the doubt of high and low castes and classes.
The ambrosial Gurbani speaks of the Real Thing and has been revealed unto the Guru in the state of Divine Knowledge and meditation.
The Guru-wards utter it, the Guru-wards realise it and by God's grace, the divines ponder over it,
Creating the world in His will, the Lord keeps it in His will and in His will He beholds it.
If before he dies, man's ego is stilled, O Nanak, then becomes he acceptable in God's court.
1st Guru.
The Vedas proclaim that virtue and vice are the seed of heaven and hell.
Whatever man sows that alone grows. The soul realises it, when it eats the fruit of his deeds.
Deeming diving knowledge great, whosoever praises it he becomes truthful, uttering the True Name.
Sowing truthfulness, truthfulness grows in man and he finds a seat in the Lord's Court.
The Veda is but a trader. The soul's capital-stock is only the Lord's comprehension, which is obtained through the Lord's grace.
Nanak, without this capital-stock none has ever departed laden with the profit of the Lord's Name.
Pauri.
Even well-irrigating, by pouring sweet Nectar, the tree of Azadirachta Indica abandons not its bitterness.
Believing in the serpent's spell, if we give it plenty of milk to drink, even then it leaves not its venom.
Like the washing of a stone, the unwaterable egocentric is softened not.
Irrigating a poisonous plant with Nectar, one obtains the poisonous fruit.
O Lord, unite Thou Nanak with the society of saints that he may be rid of all the poison.
Slok 1st Guru.
Death asks not the time, nor asks it the lunar day and the week day.
Some have loaded their luggage, some have departed after loading and some have tied their bundles.
Some are treated with severity and some are well looked after.
The mortal leaves his beauteous mansions, together with his armies and drums.
Nanak, the heap of dust is again reduced to dust.
1st Guru.
Says Nanak, the heap or fortress of dust of thy body shall soon fall.
False, false thou are, O mortal, you have seated the thief of sin within thee.
Pauri.
They within whom is pernicious slander, have their nose cut and shame others as well.
They are very ugly and ever in pain. Their face is blackened by mammon.
Ever rising in the morn, they snatch and steal others wealth and contemplate not the God's Name.
My Sire Master, associate me not with them. Preserve Thou me from them, O God, the King.
Nanak, the egocentrics act according to their past deeds and come to grief.
Slok 4th Guru.
All belong to the Master and from the Master, all emanate.
If one realises the Master's will, then alone can come one obtain truth.
Recognising one's self, by the Guru's grace, no one appears bad.
Nanak, whosoever contemplates the Name, through the Guru; fruitful is his advent in this world.
4th Guru.
The Lord Himself is the Giver of all and Himself unites them with Himself.
Nanak, they are united with the Name and serve the beneficent Lord, separate not from Him.
Pauri.
Peace abides within the mind of the Guru-ward and the Lord's name wells up in him.
He, who is pleasing to my Lord, is deemed to have performed worship, penance, self-control and ablution at the holies.
With pure mind, he serves his God and singing His praise looks beauteous.
My Sire Lord likes it this wise, that he saves the beings, through the Guru.
Nanak, the Guru-ward, the Lord unites with Himself and he looks beauteous in His Court.
Slok 1st Guru.
Thus says the rich-man, "I should go out in search of more wealth".
Nanak becomes poor on the day, when he forgets the Lord's name.
1st Guru.
The sun rises and sets and the age of all goes on diminishing.
Man's body and mind are imbued with pleasures, one loses and one wins.
Every one is puffed up with pride and inspite of being instructed, ceases not to take pride.
Nanak, the Lord, of Himself, sees all. When He takes out man's breath, he falls.
Pauri.
The treasure of the Name is the saints guild, wherefrom the Lord is attained to.
By the Guru's grace, man's mind is illumined and darkness is dispelled.
Coming in contact with the philosopher's stone, iron turns into gold.
Nanak, meeting with the True Guru, the Name is obtained and associating with him, one contemplates the Name.
They, who have virtue in their treasure; they are blessed with the Lord's vision.
Slok 1st Guru.
Accursed is the life of those, who read and write the Lord's Name to sell.
What place for threshing-floor need they, whose crop is devastated?
They who are bereft of truth and hard service, receive not appreciation hereafter.
The wisdom which is wasted in wranglings; this by no means, can be called wisdom.
Through wisdom, one serves the Lord and through wisdom one obtains honour.
Through wisdom, man is instructed by reading and through wisdom, he rightly gives in charity.
Says Nanak, this alone is the true path, Devilish are all other things.
2nd Guru.
As man does, so is he called Such is the need of the time.
One's limbs ought to be decked with virtue and not disfigured with sin. This wise alone can he be called to be of beauteous form.
Whatever he desires, if that fruit he obtains form his Lord, then is he said to possess an honourable personality, O Nanak.
Pauri.
The True Guru is the tree of Nectar. It bears the fruit of sweet Nectar.
He alone receives it. By the Guru's instruction, meets he with his Lord.
He who walks in the Guru's will, blends with his God.
The death's courier can eye him not and the Divine Light shines in his mind.
Nanak, forgiving him, the Lord unites him with Himself and he putrefies not in the womb again.
Slok 1st Guru.
They, who make truth their fasting, contentment their pilgrim-station, cognition and meditation their ablution,
compassion their deity and forgiveness their rosary; the most sublime are those persons.
They, who make the right way their lion-cloth, consciousness their sacred enclosure, good deeds their frontal-mark,
and the Lord's love their food; few, very few are such men, O Nanak.
3rd Guru.
If on the ninth lunar day, man makes a vow to speak the truth,
then he eats up his lust, wrath and desire.
If on the tenth lunar day, mortal restrains his ten doors; on the eleventh lunar day, he realises the Lord to be one,
and on the twelfth lunar day he overcomes his five deadly sins, then is his mind propitiated, O Nanak.
O Pandit, observe thou such a fasting. The imparting of any more instruction is of no avail.
Pauri.
The monarchs, kings and nobles enjoy revelments and amass the poison of wealth.
Embracing love for it, they increase their wealth, by stealing other's riches.
They trust not even their sons and wife and bear wealth an excessive affection.
Before their very eyes, wealth cheats them and they grieve and repent.
Bound at the Yama's door, they are punished, for it so pleases my Lord, O Nanak.
Slok 1st Guru.
One without Divine knowledge sings sermons.
The hungry Mulla turns his own home into a mosque.
becoming an idle-do-nothing, he has ears pierced.
Another one, embracing mendicancy loses his caste.
One who calls himself a Guru and a spiritual preceptor but goes begging,
fall not thou ever at the feet of him.
One who eats what he earns through his earnest labour and form his hand gives something in charity;
O Nanak, he alone knows the True way of life.
1st Guru.
They, whose minds are like the blind well, realise not their life-object even when told.
The mentally blind, have their heart lotus inverted and look extremely ugly.
Some know how to speak and understand what others say. Those men are wise and beauteous.
Some understand not what celestial strain, Divine comprehension, science of music, virtue and vice is.
Some are blessed not with wisdom, understanding and sublime, intellect and they find not the mystery of the Lord's Name.
Nanak, who take pride, but have no virtue.
Pauri.
All immaculate is the wealth, property and the riches of the Guru-ward.
They, who expend their wealth in the Lord's way obtain peace by so giving.
They, who meditate on the God's Name, suffer not any want.
The pious persons ever see their Lord and forsake the worldly valuables.
Nanak, the saints remember naught else and remain merged in the God's Name.
Slok 4th Guru.
Very fortunate are they, who serve the True Guru,
and who are attuned to the One True Lord.
In their own home and family, they remain absorbed in the Lord's trance.
Nanak, they, who are imbued with the Lord's Name, are truly detached.
4th Guru.
By calculation service is performed not and nor what is done, is approved.
This way one enjoys not the Name's relish and imbibes not love for the True Lord.
The obstinate person, to whom the True Guru seems not sweet comes and goes.
If he takes one step forward, then retreats he ten steps back-wards.
If mortal walks in the True Guru's will then alone performs he the True Guru's service and employment.
Stilling his self-conceit, whosoever meets with the True Guru; he easily remains merged in the Lord.
Nanak, they who unite in the union of the True Lord; they forget not His Name ever.
Pauri.
They, who call themselves chiefs and kings; none of them is allowed to stay here.
The lime-plastered fortresses and mansions; none of them goes along with the mortal.
Unstable are the golden cruppers and the horses swift like wind. Accursed, accursed is such cleverness.
Eating ambrosial delicacies of thirty-six sorts, man greatly increases his filth.
Nanak, the egocentric knows not Him, who gives him all these and comes to grief.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The Pandits and silent sages are tired of reading and writing and tired of roaming abroad are the sectarians.
On account of duality, they receive not the Name ever and are gripped by very great pain
The blind fools are subservient to the three dispositions and deal with mammon alone.
With deception in their mind the fools read sacred texts to fill their belly.
He, who has slain his self-conceit from within him, obtains peace by serving the True Guru.
Nanak, there is but One Name to read and contemplate, Some rare reflecting one knows this.
3rd Guru.
Man comes naked, and naked he departs, such is the Lord's will. What can be done?
He, to whom the thing belongs, shall take it away. With whom should one be angry?
He who becomes resigned to Guru's will he obeys the Lord's command and easily quaffs God's Nectar.
Nanak, with thy tongue utter thou the Lord's Name and ever praise the peace-giving Lord.
Pauri.
I many ways the Lord has made the decorations of the body fortress.
The rich men wear silk clothes of various colours and wondrous dyes.
On the red and white rugs they hold very beauteous courts.
In misery they eat and in misery they revel, in those things the proud person take pride.
Nanak, man remembers not the Name, which delivers him in the end.
Slok 3rd Guru.
She who is merged in the Lord's Name, easily sleeps in peace.
Hugging her to His bosom, the Lord unites her with Himself.
All-too-spontaneously, she is rid of duality.
The Lord's Name comes to abide in her mind.
Lord hugs those to his bosom, who break their mind and then remold it.
Nanak, they who are pre-destined to meet; they now come and meet with thier Lord.
3rd Guru.
They, who forget the Lord's Name, what if they perform other worships?
They are worms in the ordure. The thief of worldly affair has defrauded them.
Nanak forgets not his Lord's Name, by being beguiled by other false greed.
Pauri.
They who praise the Lord's Name and believe in the Name, are eternal in this world.
Within their mind, they dwell upon the God's Name and know not any other.
With their every hair they utter their Lord's Name and every moment remember that Lord.
Fruitful is the birth of the Guru-ward. Washing of his filth, he becomes immaculate.
Nanak, whosoever meditates on the ever-living Lord; he acquires immortal status.
Slok 3rd Guru.
They, who forget the Lord's Name and do many other deeds.
They are bound and beaten in Yama's city, O Nanak, like the thief caught on the spot.
5th Guru.
Uttering the Lord's Name, beauteous the firmament.
Nanak, they who are bereft of the Lord's Name; their bodies, the crows eat.
Pauri.
They who eulogise the Name with love, abide in their own mansion.
They enter not into existences again and are destroyed not.
With every breath and morsel, they remain blended with the love of God.
God's love fades not ever and by the Guru's grace, their mind is illumined.
Nanak, they remain on the side of God and showing His mercy, He unites them with Himself
Slok 3rd Guru.
As long as this mind is disturbed by waves, man indulges in great pride and ego.
He relishes not the Guru's word and loves not the Name.
His service becomes not acceptable and fretting, fretting, he feels miserable.
Nanak, he alone is called the servant who cuts off his head and places it before his Lord
He accepts the True Guru's will and keeps the Name clasped to his mind.
3rd Guru.
That alone is worship, penance, hard labour and service, which is pleasing to the Master.
If mortal renounces his self-conceit, the Lord pardons him and blends him with Himself.
Once blended with God, he gets not separated ever again and his light merges in the supreme light.
Nanak, he alone realises the Lord, by the Guru's grace, whom the Lord, Himself makes know Him.
Pauri.
Every one is in the Lord's account, but the proud perverse person knows it not.
He remembers not the God's Name ever and the death's courier strikes him on his head
The sins and misdeeds are like the iron-dross. He has loaded the very heavy load of them all.
Arduous and dreadful is the path, How can the stream be crossed?
Nanak, they whom the Guru saves, are emancipated. The Lord's Name ferries them across.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Without serving the True Guru, one obtains not peace and dies and is reborn again and again.
He has been ministered the intoxicating herb of worldly love and attached to another's love he does many evil deeds.
Some are saved by the Guru's grace. Unto such persons, every one pays obeisance.
Nanak, within thy mind, night and day contemplate thou the Lord's Name, by which thou shalt obtain the door of salvation.
3rd Guru.
In the love of worldly valuables one has forgotten truth, death and the Lord's Name.
Doing worldly affairs his life passes away and within him he endures pain.
Nanak, they, in whose destiny it is so pre-writ, attain to peace by serving the True Guru.
Pauri.
Read thou the account of the Lord's Name and thou shalt not be called to account, again,
No one will interrogate thee and thou shalt ever obtain refuge in the God's court.
The death's minister shall meet and offer thee homage and shall ever be thy servant.
Through the perfect Guru, thou shalt mount to thy Lord's mansion and thy glory shall become manifest in the world.
Nanak celestial strain shall play at thy mind's door and thou shalt meet that Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
If one follows Guru's command, then of all blisses, one obtains the most sublime bliss
O Nanak, if man does the deeds, enjoined by the Guru, his dread is dispelled and he is ferried across.
3rd Guru.
The True Lord grows not old and His Name is soiled not.
He, who walks in the Guru's will is born not again.
Nanak whosoever forgets the Name, he both comes and goes.
Pauri.
My Lord, I, Thy mumper, beg of thee a boon Bless thou me with it to embellish me,
O Lord, I am thirsty for Thine vision. With thy vision am I satiated.
I can live not even for an instant, a trice and a moment, Without seeing God, die I, O my mother.
The True Guru has shown the Lord with me, He is contained in all places.
Nanak, the Lord Himself wakes the sleeping man and attunes him to Himself.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The egocentrics know not how to speak. Within them is lust, wrath and pride.
They distinguish not between good and bad and ever think evil.
In the Lord's court, they are asked to render the account and there they are adjudged false.
The Creator, of Himself, creates the world and of Himself gives it thought.
Nanak, whom should one tell, that the True Lord, of Himself, is pervading everywhere.
3rd Guru.
They alone reflect over God, by the Guru's grace, who are blessed with good destiny.
Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto those, within whose mind, He the Lord, dwells.
Pauri.
Deeming life to be long, all the men build hopes.
In their mind they wish to live for ever and decorate their fortresses and mansions.
Practising guile and making various efforts, they snatch other's wealth and bring it home.
The death's courier keeps his eye on their breath and the life of those devils decreases each day.
Nanak is saved by entering the Guru's sanctuary and the Guru-God has become his Protector.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Reading and writing, the man of letters indulge in controversies in the relish of the love of riches.
In the love of the other, they forget the Lord's Name and those foolish persons are awarded punishment.
They serve not Him who created them all and who gives sustenance to all.
The death's noose round their neck is shorn not and they continue coming and going, again and again.
They, who are so pre-destined; them the True Guru comes and meets.
Night and day, they meditate on the Lord's Name and merge in the True Lord, O Nanak.
3rd Guru.
They, who repair to the feet of the supreme Guru, deal in the True Name and serve the
True Lord. Nanak, they who walk in the Guru's will are easily absorbed in the True Being.
Pauri.
In desire, there is very great pain. The wayward person attaches his mind to it.
The Guru-wards become desireless and attain to supreme bliss.
In household they remain unattached and imbibe affection for the Detached Lord.
Sorrow and separation cling to them not and they remain happy in their Lord's will.
Nanak, they ever remain hand and glove with their God and the primal Being blends them with Himself.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Why should man keep another's trust? Returning it, he attains peace.
The Guru's word abides in the Guru. It becomes not manifest through any one else.
Finding a jewel, the blind man goes from house to house to sell it.
They can not know its worth and thus they earn not even half a shell for it,
If one can not know the worth himself, then let some expert (an assessor) assess it.
If he fixes his mind with the Guru, then he obtains the real Thing and is blessed with the nine treasures.
The wealth is at home and the world is dying of hunger. Without the True Guru it gets not clue to it.
When the pacifying Word abides in the mind and body, then there remains no sorrow and separation.
The thing belongs to another, but himself priding on it, the fool exhibits his own hollowness.
Nanak without understanding, no one obtains God and one comes and goes again and again.
3rd Guru.
My mind is in bliss, that I have met my Beloved Lord. My sweet friends and saints are also delighted.
They who are united with God, separate not ever. Them the Creator has united with Himself.
I have found my Guru. He has dispelled all my sorrows and the Name is now permeating my mind.
I ever praise my Bliss-giving God and keep Him enshrined within my heart.
How can a perverse person back-bite those, who are embellished with the True Name?
My beloved Himself preserves the honour of those, who have repaired to the refuge of the Guru's door.
Nanak, such true Sikhs of the Guru's become comfortable and their countenances sparkle in the Lord's court.
Pauri.
The wife and husband greatly love each other and meeting together, they increase their love still more.
Seeing his sons and wife, he is ever pleased and is attached to the love of mammon.
Stealing wealth from the country and abroad, he brings it to put it into their mouth.
In the end enmity and variance well up and none can rescue him.
Without the Name, O Nanak, accursed is the worldly love, attached to which man suffers sorrow.
Slok 3rd Guru.
By the Guru's grace, is obtained the ambrosial Name, partaking of which all the hunger departs.
Then man craves not at all and the Name comes to abide in his mind.
Without the Name to eat aught else; with that the disease hastens to cling to one's body.
Nanak, whosoever deems the Lord's praise as his sweet and saltish savours; him the Lord unites with Himself.
3rd Guru.
Within the mortal, the life is of the Lord's name, by which he meet's with his Spouse.
Without the Name, there is darkness in the world, Through the Name, the Lord becomes manifest.
Of reading, reading, the scholars and silent sages are tired, and weary are the sectarians of washing their bodies.
Without the Name no one attains unto God and the woe-begone depart wailing.
Nanak, if man's good destiny awakes, the attains unto the Merciful Master.
Pauri.
Between wife and husband there is great love, sitting together they hatch evil designs.
All that comes to view, shall pass away. This is the will of my Lord.
How should one eternally live in this world? Let some one devise some such scheme.
Serving the Perfect Guru, the wall of one's entire life becomes stable.
They who are absorbed in the God's name; granting pardon, the Lord unites them with Himself, O Nanak.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Being attached to the love of riches, one forgets the Guru's fear and the affection of the Infinite Lord.
Through the currents of avarice, man loses his sound understanding and embraces not affection for the True Name.
They, within whose mind, by the Guru's grace, the Name abides, obtain the door of salvation in the Lord's Court.
Nanak, the Lord, of Himself, forgives and of Himself unites men with Himself.
4th Guru.
Says Nanak, O man, without whom we can live not even for a moment and forgetting whom we can succeed not even a trice,
why are thou angry with Him, who feels anxiety (cares) for us?
4th Guru.
The uniformly-raining month of Sawan has come. Meditate thou on the Lord's Name, by the Guru's grace.
All trouble, hunger and woe end, when the rain falls in torrents.
The entire earth becomes green, the seed germinates and there appear the corn-heaps.
Showing His mercy, the carefree God calls the man and himself approves of his service.
O saintly persons, contemplate ye that Lord, who shall deliver ye in the end.
Bliss is in the Lord's praise and devotion. By these eternal peace comes to abide in man's mind.
The Guru-wards, who ponder over the Name; their pain and hunger depart.
Singing the Lord's praise, slave Nanak is sated. O God, bless him Thou with Thy vision, that he may be embellished.
Pauri.
The Perfect Guru ever blesses with bounties, which increases day by day.
In his pleasure, the Merciful master, of Himself grants them. By concealing, they can be concealed not.
Man's heart lotus blooms and becomes to embrace affection for the state of supreme bliss.
If some one rivals him, then the Lord thrown dust on his head.
Nanak, none can equal the glory of the Perfect True Guru.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The order of the Care-free Lord is above all, With Him cleverness avails not, nor can one cavil with Him.
Abandoning his self-conceit, one should repair to His refuge and bow before His will.
The pious person, who banishes his ego from within himself is punished not by the Yama.
Nanak, he alone is called the Lard's slave who remains attuned to the True Lord.
3rd Guru.
All gifts, light and beauty are Thine, O Lord!
Excessive cleverness and pride are mine.
Engrossed in greed, worldly love and ego, man performs many rituals, but his comings and goings end not ever.
O Nanak, the Creator-Lord of Himself causes to act. Whatever pleases Him, that alone is the good thing.
Pauri. 5th Guru.
If the True Name be man's food, the True Name his wear and the True Name his support,
then the perfect Guru makes him meet with the Beneficent Lord.
His perfect destiny has awakened and he meditates on the Formless Lord.
Being attached to the society of saints, the world is ferried across,
O Nanak, utter thou the commendation and praise of the Lord and acclaim Him too.
Slok 5th Guru.
O Lord, shower Thou thine benediction and take care of all the beings.
Produce Thou plenty of corn and water and ridding them of pain and penury, ferry them across the world-ocean.
The Beneficent Lord heard my prayer and the world has been comforted.
My Lord, take Thou me into Thine embrace and banish all my misery.
Nanak meditates on the Lord's Name for the House of the Lord is the Giver of boons.
5th Guru.
The comely clouds have begun to rain, for such is the order issued by the Creator.
Abundant corn has been produced and the world is comforted.
Contemplating the Inaccessible and Infinite Lord, the body and soul are reverdured.
O Lord, my True Creator, shower Thou Thine benediction on me.
Nanak, is ever a sacrifice unto the Lord, who does what He wishes to do.
Pauri.
The great Lord, of Himself is beyond reach and great is His glory.
Seeing my Lord, I am transported and through the Guru's word my mind is cooled.
All by Himself, the Lord is pervading everywhere. He, of Himself, is all in all, O brother.
Of Himself, God is the Lord of all, He has snaffled all and drives everyone subject to His command.
Nanak, what the Lord wills, that He does, Every one, walks as is the will of the Lord.
Rag Sarang Hymns of the saints. Reverend Kabir.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O man, why are thou proud of a small matter?
With ten maunds of corn and four coins in thy knot, thou are puffed up so much. Pause.
In case of greater grandeur, thou may have a hundred villages and an income of two lakhs of rupees.
Like the tree leaves of the forest, thou may enjoy thy chieftainship for four days.
No one has brought this wealth with him and no one shall take it away.
The sovereigns, greater than even Rawan, passed away in an instant.
God's saints, who utter God's Name and worship Him, remain ever stable.
They, unto whom the World-Lord shows mercy, meet with the society of the saints.
The Mother, father, wife, sons and wealth go not with the mortal in the end.
Says Kabir, contemplate thou thy Lord, O mad man, Thy life is passing away in vain.
O God, I know not the limit of Thine Royal place.
I am the hand-maiden of Thine saints. Pause.
He, who goes laughing, returns weeping and he, who goes weeping and he, who goes weeping, returns laughing.
What is inhabited, that becomes deserted and what is deserted that becomes inhabited.
The Lord turns water into desert and desert into a well and from a well, He makes a mountain.
From the earth, God raises man to the sky and when he has ascended to the sky, He dashes him down.
A beggar, He makes rule an empire and a king, He turns into a beggar.
From an idiot and a blackhead God makes a scholar and from a scholar of fool.
Such is the Lord, who turns a woman into a man and the males into females.
Says Kabir, God is the Beloved of His saints, Unto His vision, I am a sacrifice.
Sarang. Hymns of Sire Namdev
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O man, why go though into the forest of sins?
Through mistake, thou eat the cheats*** herb. Pause.
Thou are like a fish, which abides in water,
but thinks not of the deadly net.
Through the relish of tongue, it swallows iron,
like this the mortal is bound by the love of gold and a damsel.
As the bee hoards up much honey,
and man takes the honey and throws dust into its mouth (so is the case with man's amassed wealth).
The cow stores up milk for her calf,
but the milkman ties the calf by the neck and milks the cow.
For wealth, man makes great effort.
That wealth, he takes and buries in the ground.
He amasses it a great deal, but the fool understands not.
His riches remain in the ground and his body becomes dust.
Man burns with great lust, wrath and avarice.
He joins not the society of the saints ever.
Says Namdev, seek thou that Lord's protection,
and becoming fear-free contemplate the Auspicious Lord.
Why lay thou not a wager with me, O Lord of wealth?
The servant is known from his master and the master from his servant, This is my game with Thee, O Lord. Pause.
Thou Thyself are the deity, Thyself the temple and Thyself the worshipper, O Lord.
From the water rise the waves and from the waves the water But both have different Names in conversation.
Thou Thyself sing, Thyself dance and Thyself play the bugle.
Says Namdev, Thou alone are my Lord I, Thy servant, am imperfect and Thou are Perfect.
Says the Lord, "My slave, who adores none but me, is my own embodiment".
A moment's sight of him removes man's three fevers and his touch extricates him from the wells of the household. Pause.
My saint can release one bound by me, but I can release not one bound by my saint.
If, at any time, my saint seizes and binds me, then even I can raise not any objection.
I am bound by virtues and am the life of all, but my slaves are my life.
O Namdev, he within whose mind are such sentiments; similar is my love, which illumines him.
Sarang.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
O man, what has thou done by hearing the Puranas?
The Lord's ever-stable worship has not welled up in thee, and thou has not given alms to the hungry. Pause.
Lust thou has forgotten not, wrath thou has forgotten not and avarice has not lift thee, O brother.
Other's A slander has not left thine lips. Fruitless has become all thy service.
O sinner, by highway robbery and others house-breaking, thou fill thy belly.
Thou has practised the ignorance, wherewith infamy shall go with thee in the yond.
Cruel violence has not cherished mercy for living creatures.
Parma Nand, why have not recited the immaculate gospel of God meeting with the society of saints.
O man, abandon thou the association of the non-believers in God.
Sarang 5th Guru Sur Das.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
The men of God, ever dwell with God.
Unto God they dedicate their body and soul and also dedicate they there entire family to Him. While uttering His Name they are intoxicated with the melody of celestial bliss. Pause.
Seeing the Lord's vision, they are freed of sin, and obtain all the things.
Gazing on the Lord's beauteous face, they have nothing to do with any other affair.
Forsaking the sable and beauteous Lord, he who desires anything else, is life a leech on the body of a leper.
Sur Das, the Lord has taken my soul in His hand and has blessed me with this hand and has blessed me with this Heaven of His.
Sarang Sire kabir
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Without God, who is the succourer of this man?
The Love of mother, father, brother, son and wife is all but an illusion. Pause.
Construct thou a raft for the world, hereafter. what reliance can be placed on wealth?
What confidence can be reposed on this vessel? It perishes with a slight stroke.
Thou shalt obtain the fruit of all the pious deeds and alms, if thou desire to become the dust of feet of all the men.
Says Kabir, hear O ye saints, this soul is life the flying bird of the forest.
Rag Malar Chaupadas. 1st Guru.
There us but One God, True is His Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His form. He is without fear, sans enmity, unborn and self-illumined, By the Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Amidst eating, drinking, laughing and sleeping, one forget death.
Forgetting his Lord, man has ruined himself and rendered his life accursed. He is not to stay here.
O mortal, meditate thou on the one Lord's Name.
This wise thou shalt go thy home with honour. Pause.
What they, who serve Thee, give Thee? They rather beg all the beings; thou are the life within those beings.
Thou are the Giver for all the beings, thou are the life within those beings.
The God-conscious beings who remember God; they receive Nectar and they alone become pure.
Day and night contemplate thou the Lord's name, O mortal. Through it the filthy are rendered immaculate.
As is the season, so is the comfort of the body and so is the body itself.
Nanak, beauteous is the season, in which the Lord's name is meditated upon. What is any season, without the Lord's Name?
Malar 1st Guru.
I make supplication before my beloved Guru, that he may unite me with God, my spouse.
Hearing the thundering of clouds my mind is rendered calm and cool and imbued with the Love of my Beloved, I sing His praise.
Pour down, O clouds, that my soul may be wetted with my spouse's love.
The Nectar drop is pleasing to my mind. The Guru has bewitched my soul and it is now absorbed in the God's elixir. Pause.
The Bride whose mind is pleased with the Guru's word, is sweet to her spouse and enjoys peace of poise.
Such a bride of God, the Groom, becomes eternal and to her mind and body her Lord's love is pleasing.
Abandoning demerits, she becomes detached and having God as her Groom, her married life is rendered permanent.
The Lord God showers His benediction on her and she suffers not sorrow and separation ever.
She seizes the shelter of the Perfect Guru. Her mind becomes moveless and she comes and goes not.
O Nanak, by the Guru's grace, utter thou the Lord's Name, that thou may be accepted as the really blessed bride of the True Lord.
Malar 1st Guru.
They who posses not true under-standing and are sated not with the Name, lose their life, taking pride,
Attached to another's woman and other's wealth and slander, they eat poison and suffer pain.
Without contemplating the Name, they are not delivered of fear and fraud and in their mind and mouth is all-mammon.
Loading a huge and very heavy load of sins, they waste their life and dying are born again.
The beauteous Name is pleasing to my mind.
Man rambles and roams in existences, wearing various grabs, but when the Guru saves him, the attains to the True Lord. Pause.
Abandoning his wrath, mortal bathes not at the holies and he loves not the God's Name.
He abandons and forsakes the invaluable wealth of the God's Name and goes to where he had come from.
Owing to that, he becomes the worm of ordure and in that very ordure he merges.
The more man enjoys the more he is displeased. Without the Guru, peace is obtained not.
If I serve God in my mind and sing His praise with joy, then by the Guru's grace, I obtain His comprehension and meditation.
The seeker of God flowers and the debater*** perishes. I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice unto my great Creator-Lord.
I am groveling, low and of false understanding. Thou embellish me with Thy Name.
Wherever there is self-realisation, there Thou are, O True Rescuer. The Emancipator emancipates the mortals.
Seated on a good place I utter Thy praise, O Lord which of Thine infinite praises should I utter?
Thou, O Unfathomable, Unborn and Unknowable Lord can be known not, Thou are the Subduer of the great masters.
Seeing Thee, to whom should I say what Thou are like? All are Thine mumpers and Thou alone are the Giver, O Lord.
Lacking devotion, Nanak is looking towards Thy door, O Lord, Bless Thou him with Thine One Name, that he may enshrine it in his mind.
Malar 1st Guru.
The bride, who knows not the love of her Groom; she bewails with the withered face.
Caught in the noose of her deeds, she becomes hopeless and strays in doubt, without the Guru.
Pour down, ye, O clouds. My spouse has come into my home.
I am a sacrifice unto my beloved Guru, who has made me meet my Lord God. Pause.
Ever fresh is my love with my Lord. My devotional service looks beauteous night and day.
Seeing the Guru's vision, I am emancipated and through my loving adoration, I have become glorious throughout all the ages.
O Lord of the three worlds, I belong to Thee and the universe too is Thine, Thou are mine and I am Thine.
Meeting with the True Guru, I have obtained the Immaculate Lord and so shall not, again go round this dreadful world-ocean.
If the bride is delighted to behold God, her spouse, then alone, her decorations are true.
Imbued with the Unlineal and Immaculate Lord, she becomes the true of the true and by the Guru's instruction leans only on the Name.
She is emancipated, her bonds are loosed by the Guru and contemplating the Name, she attains honour.
The Lord's Name abides on her mind, O Nanak and the sublime Guru unites her in the Lord's union.
1st Guru Malar.
Attraction to another's woman or wealth, excessive avarice, the poisonous sin of self-conceit,
evil inclinations, other's slander and the pariahs of lust and wrath; should all be give up.
In the mansion is reclining the Inaccessible and Infinite Lord.
That man alone obtains the Name-Nectar in his mind, whose conduct is according to the jewel of the Guru's instruction. Pause.
He considers both pain and pleasure and bad and good of the world as the same.
Embracing love for the Guru's guild of the saints, wisdom, knowledge, understanding and the Lord's Name are obtained.
Day and night profit is obtained from the Lord's Name, given by the beneficent Guru.
The man, on whom the Creator-Lord looks with favour, obtains instruction from the Supreme Guru.
This body is the mansion, temple and home of God and into it He has enshrined His Infinite Light.
Nanak, the Guru-ward is invited to God's palace and God, the Uniter, unites him with Himself.
Malar 1st Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
If he understands that all creation is through air and water,
and that fire too, no doubt, builds the body;
also if he understands the place where soul is created,
then alone can his name be an intelligent pandit.
One can know not the praises of the World-Lord, O mother.
Without seeing God, one can say not aught regarding Him.
How can one describe and narrate Him, O my mother?. Pause.
The Lord is contained high up in the sky and down below in the neither-world, as well.
How can I narrate Him? make thou me understand this thing.
Which is recited in the mind without the tongue;
some rare one knows, what sort of Name that is.
Doubtlessly, the words of mouth cease in such a state.
On whom is the Lord's grace alone understands this,
and within his mind, day and night, he remains attached to the Lord.
He alone is the perfect person, who remains merged in the True Lord.
If God's slave be in the high caste family;
his story of praise no one can narrate.
If there be Lord's serf of the low family;
Nanak offer him the foot wear made of his own skin.
Malar 1st Guru.
Firstly I fee the pain of separation from God and another pain is of the Hunger for His Meditation.
Another pain is of the fear of strong attack of the death's myrmidon.
Yet another pain is that infested with disease, my body shall pass away.
O ignorant physician, minister thou not any medicine to me.
O simpleton physician, give thou me no medicaments.
The pain persists and the body's suffering continues,
such a medicine produces no effect on me, O brother. Pause.
Forgetting the Lord, man enjoys sexual pleasures,
then do the ailments arise in his body.
and the blind soul is punished.
O ignorant physician, apply not thy cure to me.
The use of sandal-wood is the sandal's perfume.
Man is useful as long as the there is breath in his body.
When breath departs, the body crumbles away.
After that no one takes anything.
Gold becomes the body and stainless the soul swan;
in which there is even a particle of the Immaculate Name.
All his pain and disease are dispelled.
Through the True Name, O Nanak, he is delivered and released.
Malar 1st Guru.
Pain is arsenic and God's Name an antidote.
Pound it thou in the mortar of contentment with the pestle of thine hand's gift.
Ever, ever take thou this medicine and thy body shall pine not away.
Otherwise death shall pommel thee at the final hour.
O ignorant man, take thou such medicine,
by eating which thou shall be cured of thy sins. Pause.
Empire, wealth and youth are all shadows.
So are the carriages, which are seen moving about in various places.
Neither the body, nor renown, nor caste goes along with the mortal.
There is day there, and here it is all night.
Make relishes thy fire wood, avarice thy clarified butter and oil,
and burn the lust and wrath in the fire (of divine knowledge).
Burnt offerings sacred feasts and reading of the Puranas;
whatever is pleasing to Him, that alone is acceptable.
Arduous service of Thine, O Lord, is the paper and Thy Name, the prescription.
They for whom this treasure of medicine is prescribed,
look wealthy, when they reach the Lord's Home.
Nanak, blessed is the mother who bore them.
Malar 1st Guru.
Thou wear white clothes and speak sweet words.
Sharp is thy nose and black thine eyes.
Has thou ever seen thy Lord' O sister?
I fly and flying up ascend the sky,
by Thy might, O my all-powerful Lord.
I see my Lord in water, dry land, mountains, river-banks,
places and interspaces, O brother.
The Lord, who has fashioned the body and has also given along with it the feathers,
has also put within it the great desire of thirst to fly out.
He casts His merciful glance on me, then alone I am comforted.
As He makes me see, so do I see, O brother.
Neither this body shall go, nor shall go its wings in the yond,
for it is the mere aggregate of air, water and fire.
Nanak, if man has good destiny, he meditates on his God, by adopting the Guru, as his spiritual guide.
This way the soul, abiding in this body merges in the True Lord.
Malar 3rd Guru. Chaupadas
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The Shapeless Lord is Himself shapeable. he Himself strays one in doubt.
Creating the creation, the Creator Himself beholds it. As He wills, so yokes He the mortals.
For the Lord's slave, whom He makes obey His command, this obedience alone is great honour.
His will, He Himself knows. By the Guru's grace, the Lord is obtained.
When this mammonish intent comes into God's House, the mortal remains dead in life. Pause.
The mortal peruses and reads the Vedas and utters discursive thoughts regarding Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva.
This mammon of three qualities has strayed the world and it abides under the fear of birth and death.
Knowing the One Lord, by the Guru's grace, the mind's anxiety is removed.
I am meek, ignorant and thoughtless, O Lord, Thou alone are to take care of me.
Be Thou merciful to me and make me the slave of Thine slaves, that I may perform Thy service.
Bless me Thou, O Lord, with the treasure of Thy One Name, that day and night I may utter it.
Says Nanak, O man, by the Guru's grace, understand thou thy God. Some rare one knows the world to be life this.
As is the foam or bubble on the water so is this world.
Ultimately this world shall come to an end and shall merge in Him, from whom it had issued forth.
Malar 3rd Guru.
They, who realise the Lord's will, are united with Him and their self-conceit is burnt off through the Name.
Day and night, they perform the truelove-worship and remain attuned to the True Lord.
By the Guru's instruction, they easily ever behold their True Lord.
O man, submit thou to the Lord will and thou shalt obtain peace.
The Lord loves His own will. He, whom he forgives, meets with no obstacle. Pause.
Under the influence of three dispositions, man's mind all wanders about and he obtains neither Lord's meditation nor His affection.
By doing deeds in ego, one is never emancipated and delivered.
Whatever the Lord wills. that alone comes to pass. Men wander about in accordance with their past deeds.
Meeting with the True Guru, man's mind is overpowered and the God's Name comes to abide in his heart.
That Lord's worth can be evaluated not, nor can even an iota of His praise be uttered.
Whosoever remains merged in the True Name, he acquires an abode in the fourth state.
Inaccessible and Incomprehensible is my God Lord, His value can be told not.
By the Guru's grace one comes to know the Lord and lives the Name.
O Nanak, praise thou the Lord God's Name and thus obtain honour in His court.
Malar 3rd Guru.
Some rare one, on whom is the God's grace, knows Him through the Guru.
Save the Guru, there is no other giver, He alone shows mercy and forgives,
Meeting with the Guru, cool-comfort wells up and night and day one utters the Name.
O my soul, contemplate thou the Lord's Nectar-Name.
Meeting with the Omnipotent True Guru, the Name is received and the mortal even remains merged and the mortal even remains merged in the Lord's Name. Pause.
The egocentrics ever remain separated from God. No one of them is with any other.
They are stricken with the great malady of pride and death's courier strikes them on the head.
The obeyers of the Guru's instruction, separate not from, the saints guild and ever remember the Name.
Thou alone are the Creator of all. Thou create, watch over and keep track of all for ever.
Some, through the Guru, merge with Thyself and Thou bless them with the treasures of Thine devotional service.
O Lord, Thou Thyself know everything. before whom should I complain?
The Lord God's Name is the Nectar. By the God's grace, one is blessed with it.
Whosoever, night and day utters the Lord's Name; he attains unto the Guru's peaceful disposition.
Nanak, the Name is the treasure of peace Fix thou thy mind with the Lord's Name.
Malar 3rd Guru.
Ever praise I may Guru, the giver of peace He is the very embodiment of the Lord Master.
By the Guru's I have obtained the supreme status and great has become my glory.
Whosoever, night and day ever sings the praise of the True Lord, he merges in the True one.
O my soul, in thy mind, contemplate thou thy Lord by the Guru's grace.
Abandon thou thy false family, poisonous pride and avarice and in thy mind think of thy departure. Pause.
The True Guru is the giver of the Lord's Name, There is not any other giver besides him.
Blessing man with the spiritual life, he satiates him and then he merges in the True Name.
In his mind, he ever remembers God and is wrapt in trance of equipoise.
With the True Guru's word this soul of mine is pierced through and within my mind too is the True Gurbani.
Unseeable is my Lord and one can see Him not, It is through the Guru, that the unutterable gospel is uttered.
When the Bliss-giving God Himself shows mercy, then alone one dwells upon the Lord of the earth.
When, by the Guru's grace, mortal contemplates his Lord, he comes and goes not again.
Obeying the Lord's order, main meets with his Master and his soul merges in the supreme soul.
Whosoever sheds his ego from within himself; he is verily pleased with the Truest of the True Lord.
Then the one unique Lord abides in his mind and he thinks not of any other second.
The Name-Nectar alone is sweet and that is the only immaculate truth in the world. they alone,
Who are so predestined, O Nanak, receive the Name from the Lord.
Malar 3rd Guru.
Reflecting over the Guru's word and contemplating the Name, all the heavenly heralds and celestial singers are saved.
Stilling their ego they ever enshrine the Name in their heart and keep the Lord clasped to their mind.
He alone realises the Lord, whom he instructs and whom. He unites with Himself.
Night and day he sings the Guru's word and the God's Name and remains attuned to the True Lord.
O my soul, every moment contemplate thou thy Lord's Name.
The Lord's Name is the Guru's boon, which shall bring thee inner peace and shall ever stand by thee O soul. Pause.
The egocentrics abandon not hypocrisy ever and suffer pain Through another's love.
Forgetting the Name, their mind is imbued with sin and they lose their human life in Vain.
This opportunity come not to their hand again and night and day they ever regret.
They die and dying are reborn. Their Lord, they realise not ever and putrefy in ordure.
The Guru wards are imbued with the Lord's Name and reflect over the Guru's word, This wise are they emancipated.
They meditate on the Lord's Name and keep the Lord enshrined in their mind, Thus do they obtain present salvation.
Their soul and body are immaculate. Immaculate and sublime is their speech too becomes sublime.
They know but the Unique being, their One Lord For them there is not any other.
The Lord Himself is the Doer and Himself the Cause. He of Himself casts His merciful glance.
My soul and body are imbued with the Guru's hymns and my mind is merged in the Lord's service.
The Indiscernible and Inscrutable Lord abides within the mind, but through the Guru's grace alone, He is realised.
Nanak, with whomsoever the Lord is pleased, He Himself blesses with His Name and as He wills so drives He the mortal.
Malar 3rd Guru Dotukas.
Through the True Guru, one obtains the sublime place and the door of the Lord's Home and Mansion.
Through the Guru's word one's ego is stilled.
They, on whose forehead is writ the Lord's Name;
night and day, they ever, ever meditate on the Name and obtain honour in the True court. Pause.
Through the Guru, they know the way to subdue their mind and night and day, their attention ever remains fixed with God.
Imbued with the Guru's word, they ever remain detached and obtain honour in the God's True court.
This mind plays subject to the Lord's will and wandering in ten directions, returns in a moment.
When the True God Lord Himself shows mercy, then this mind is instantly subdued, through the Guru.
Realising and contemplating the Name, man comes to know the way to subdue his mind.
O Nanak, remember thou ever the Lord's Name, that thou may be ferried across, the dreadful world ocean.
Malar 3rd Guru.
The soul, body and vital-breath all belong to Him and He is pervading all hearts.
Without the One Lord, I know not another. The True Guru, has revealed this unto me,
O my soul remain thou attuned to the Lord's Name.
By the Guru's instruction, meditate I on the Unseeable, unapprehensible and Illimitable Creator-Lord. Pause.
Enshrining affection for One God the soul and body are pleased and one remains merged in equipoise.
By the Guru's grace, doubt and dread are dispelled and one is attuned to the one Name.
By the Guru's instruction, If man does true deeds, then alone obtains he emancipation and understanding.
Amongst millions rare is the one, whom the Lord instructs and he comes to embrace love for the Lord's Name.
Wherever I see, there I see the one Lord. This understanding I have obtained through the Guru's instruction.
Purging myself of my self-conceit, O Nanak, I place before Him my mind, body and vital-breath.
Malar 3rd Guru.
My True Lord, the Eradicator of suffering, is obtained, through the Guru's instruction.
Whosoever is imbued with the Lord's devotion, ever remains detached and obtains honour in the True Court.
O my soul, remain thou blended with the Supreme Soul.
By the Guru's grace, man's mind is pleased with the Lord's Name and he is attuned to the Lord. Pause.
My Lord is supremely Unfathomable and Unknowable. By his instruction, the Guru reveals Him unto man.
To utter God's praise and to fix attention with God, is the true self-mortification.
The Luminous Lord, who has infused His light amongst all, is Himself the Name and Himself the true instruction.
In this frail body, within which rings the breath, the Name-Nectar is received through the Guru.
God, of Himself creates all and yokes them to work. He, the True Lord is contained amongst all.
Nanak, without the Name, none is worth anything, It is through the Name that the Lord Blesses one with glory.
Malar 3rd Guru.
Man is lured by the poison of pride and he has loaded a dragon heavy load of sins.
Putting His Name eagle-spell in the mouth, God has destroyed the poison of pride.
O man, immense is the pain of pride, and worldly love.
Unswimable is this dreadful world-river. Embarking on the boat of the God's Name, by the Guru's grace, cross thou this world river. Pause.
The ostentation of the love of the three qualities mammon is pervading all the bodies.
Associating with the saints, the state of eternal beatitude is obtained and the Merciful Master ferries across the mortal.
The fragrance and it spreads its perfume afar.
Likewise sublime is the way of life of the Lord's saint. The Lord's praise, he spreads in the world.
O my Lord, show Thou mercy, mercy unto me, that I may enshrine, Thee, Thee, Thee in my mind.
Nanak has attained unto the Perfect True Guru and in his mind the contemplates the Name of God, the Enemy of ego.
Malar 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
Is this mind a householder, or is this mind an anchoret?
Is this mind without caste and ever immortal?
Is this mind mercurial, or is this mind detached?
Where has mine-ness clung to this mind?
O Pandit, reflect thou on this mind?
Why read thou much else and carry unavailing load?. Pause.
The Creator-Lord has attached mammon and worldly love to this mind.
Enacting this law, He has created the world.
By the Guru's grace, understand thou this, O brother.
Ever abide thou under the Lord's protection.
He alone is the Pandit, who casts off the load of three qualities.
Night and day, he utters the One Name.
He receives the instruction of the True Guru,
and offers his head unto the True Guru.
He ever remains aloof and detached.
Such a Pandit becomes acceptable in the Lord's court.
He preaches that the one lone is amongst all.
When he sees the One Lord amidst all, then, he realises Him alone to be there.
One, whom the Lord forgives; unites with Himself,
and such a person ever obtains peace here and hereafter.
Says Nanak, what can any one do and in what way?
He alone is emancipated, on whom is God's grace.
Night and day, he sings God's praise.
He, then, no more, hears the proclamations of the Vedas and Shashtras.
Malar 3rd Guru.
Strayed by doubt and suspicion, the egocentric wanders in species.
The Death's courier ever beats and disgraces him.
Serving the True Guru, one is rid of the fear of the Yama.
This wise one meets with one's God Lord and finds the True Home and Mansion.
O mortal, contemplate thou thy Lord's Name, by the Guru's grace.
Thy invaluable life thou are wasting in duality and it is going in exchange for a trite. Pause.
When the Lord is in mercy, man loves Him by the Guru's grace.,
and within him abides devotion, and he keeps his Lord God clasped to his mind.
The Lord's Name ferries man across the dreadful world-ocean.
Such a person looks true in the True court.
Performing millions of rituals, the mortal attains not unto the True Guru.
Without the True Guru, good many stray in doubt and mammon.
Their ego, mine-ness and worldly attachment have greatly increased.
Through another's love, the way-ward person suffers sorrow.
The Creator Lord, of Himself, is Inaccessible and Infinite.
Ever close at hand is my care-free Lord.
Meditating on the Lord, under the Guru's guidance, true profit is attained.
Nanak, by the Guru's grace, one merges in the Lord's Name.
Malar 3rd Guru.
They, who are attached to the Guru's wisdom, are emancipated in life.
In the Lord's meditation, night and day they ever remain awake.
Stilling their self-conceit, they serve True Guru.
I ever repair to the feet of such persons.
I live by ever singing God's praises.
The Guru's word is the supremely sweet-elixir. Through the God's Name, I have attained to the state of salvation.
The love of riches envelops one in the darkness of ignorance.
The foolish and ignorant egocentrics are seduced by it.
Their night and day pass in doing worldly deeds.
They die, and dying are born again and they are awarded punishment.
The Guru-ward embraces affection for the Lord's Name.
He clings not to false avarice.
Whatever the does, he does spontaneously.
He in-drinks the God's Nectar joyously with his tongue.
Amongst millions is some rare one, whom the Lord instructs.
Him the Lord forgives and blesses with glory.
Who ever meets with the Primal Lord; he separates not again.
Nanak has merged in the Name of the Lord Master.
Malar 3rd Guru.
Everyone utters the Name with the tongue.
If man serves the True Guru, then alone he receives the Name.
Snapping the worldly bonds, he abides in the house of emancipation,
and by the Guru's word, sits in the ever-stable mansion.
O my mind, why are thou cross?
In the Darkage reap thou the profit of the Lord's Name, under Guru's instruction, night and day contemplate thou it in thy mind. Pause.
Every moment wails the pied cuckoo,
and without seeing his love sleeps not at all.
This separation he can bear not.
When he meets the True Guru, then meets he with his love all spontaneously.
One bereft of the Name suffers and perishes
He is burnt with desire and his hunger depart not.
Without good destiny, the Name is attained not,
and he is tired performing rituals in many ways.
Man reflects over the sermon of the Vedas of three qualities,
and he deals in sins, the filthy sins.
He dies, is reborn and is wasted away over and over again.
By the Guru's grace, mortal enshrines in his mind virtues of the fourth state.
He, who reveres the Guru, everyone reveres him.
Through the Guru's word, man's mind is cooled.
The glory of that pure person spreads through four ages.
Nanak, rare is such a pious sikh of the Guru.
Rag Malar 4th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
Night and day meditate I on my Lord Master, Enshrining the gospel, the Guru's gospel in my mind, I am rid of all the sorrows.
When my God, the Lord Master became merciful to me, all the bonds of my hope and desire were snapped.
Mine eyes incessantly gaze upon my Lord Master.
Seeing the True Guru, my soul has blossomed and I, the slave, have met with my Lord the Creator. Pause.
He, who forgets the such sublime Name of my Lord God; to his family attaches the stigma.
O God, many his lineage bring birth no child and may his mother be widowed.
O Lord God, unite me Thou with the Guru-saint, who day and night keeps God clasped to his heart.
Seeing his Guru, the Guru's disciple flowers forth as does the mother seeing her child.
The bride and the Groom dwell together, but in-between them is the hard wall of ego.
The Perfect Guru has demolished the wall of ego and slave Nanak has met his God, the Lord of woods.
Malar 4th Guru.
The Ganges, the Jamna, the Godawari and the Saraswati; they make effort for the dust of the feet of the saints.
They say, "The mortals full with the filth of sins take dip into us. The dust of the saints ' feet washes away our filth".
Instead of sixty-eight holies, bathe thou, O man, in the Lord's Name.
When the dust of the saints' A congregation rises and falls into the eyes, it removes all the filth of evil-intellect. Pause.
Beagirath, the penitent, brought down the Ganges and Shiva established Kidar Nath.
Krishan grazed cows in Banaras. Through touch of the Lord's slaves, these places attained glory.
As many are the pilgrim-stations established by gods, so many all long for the dust of the feet of the saints.
If I meet with the Lord's saints or a holy man of the Guru, I shall apply the dust of his feet to my countenance.
As many as are the creatures of Thine, O my Lord, so many all crave for the dust of the saints' A feet.
Nanak, he on whose forehead it is so writ; blessing him with the dust of the saints ' feet, the Lord ferries him across.
Malar 4th Guru.
To that man alone God seems sweet, on whom is the Lord God's praise;
He, who utters God and God's praise, his hunger and pain are all dispelled.
Uttering the Lord God's Name, the mortal is emancipated.
He, who reads and, with his ears, hears the Guru's word, crosses the terrible world-ocean. Pause.
I am the shop-bought slave of the person, on whom is my Lord Master's grace.
Meeting with the God's saint, peace is attained and all the filth of evil-intellect is washed off.
God's slave hungers for God alone and the slave is satiated, when he utters the God's praise.
God's slave is the fish in the God's water. Forgetting God, he wriggles to death.
He alone understands this love who has infused it, or he knows it, within whose mind it is enshrined.
Seeing his God, slave Nanak attains peace and his body's hunger is all satiated.
Malar 4th Guru.
As many creatures as the Lord has created, on the Lord has created, on the foreheads of so many, He has writ their tasks.
To His slave, the Lord blesses with glory, His slave, the Lord yokes to His service.
The True Guru implants the Lord God's Name within man's mind.
Utter ye, God's Name, O sikhs of the Guru, my brethren, God alone shall ferry ye across the terrible world ocean. Pause.
The man, who adores and serves the Guru; that man, is pleasing to my God Lord.
The True Guru's worship is the service of God, who by His mercy Himself saves the man,
The blind ignorant ones stray in doubt and so deluded, deluded they pluck flowers for worship.
They worship the lifeless stones and adore tombs, Their service all goes in vain.
He alone is said to be the True Guru, who realises the Lord and utters the Lord God's discourse.
Deeming the Guru true and supreme I offer to him in many ways clothes, viands, silk and satin robes and the merit of that offering diminishes not ever.
The Luminous True Guru is manifestly the embodiment of God, who utters the Nectar-word.
Nanak, sublime is the destiny of the man, who fixes his mind with the Lord's feet.
Malar 4th Guru.
Sublime, sublime in very way are the saints, within whose mind my True Guru abides.
Seeing them my mind is gladdened and I am ever a sacrifice unto them.
O knower of God, day and night utter thou thy Lord's Name.
They, who through Guru's instruction partake of the Lord's elixir; their desire and hunger are all dispelled. Pause.
God's slaves are the God's saints and comrades. Meeting with whom doubt is dispelled
As the swan, by sorting out, makes water and the milk separate, separate, so does the saint quench the fire of ego from within the body.
They, who have not God's love in their mind, are the deceitful persons and they ever practise deceit.
What can any one give them to eat? They themselves sow and themselves eat.
That what is the Lord's characteristic, is also of the Lord's saint, God Himself has kept His ownself in the saint.
O Nanak, blessed, blessed is the impartial Guru, who himself crossed and makes others cross the stream of slander and praise.
Malar 4th Guru.
Sublime is the Name of Unfathomable and Unperceivable God. By the God's grace, it is meditated upon.
Through the greatest good fortune I have attained the holy congregation of the saints and by the saints' A association I am ferried across.
Night and day my mind is in bliss.
By the Guru's grace, utter I the Name of my God and doubt and dread of my mind are dispelled. Pause.
They, who hymn Thee, they who meditate on Thee, O Lord God; in Thy mercy, unite me Thou with their society.
Seeing their vision, I obtain peace and am rid of pain and the ailment of ego.
They who night and day contemplate the Name in their mind; their entire life becomes fruitful.
They themselves swim across, deliver the whole world and their entire lineage too is saved.
Thou, of Thyself, has created the whole world and Thyself keep it under thy sway.
Unto slave Nanak, the Lord has shown mercy and has saved him from sinking in the ocean of sins.
Malar 4th Guru.
Whosoever by the Guru's grace in-drinks not the Name-Nectar, his thirst and hunger depart not.
The foolish egocentric burns in the fire of pride and suffers sorrow in self-conceit.
In coming and going the loses his life in vain and when afflicted by pain, he regrets.
He contemplate not Him, from whom He has welled up, Accursed is his life and accursed his viand.
O mortal, contemplate thou thy Lord's Name by the Guru's grace.
Showing leads man to the Guru and he merges in the Lord God's Name. Pause.
The life of the egocentric goes in vain and he is shamed in coming and going.
In lust and wrath, the proud persons are drowned and within ego are they, burnt down.
They possess not perfection and understanding, their intellect is dimmed and through the ride of avarice they suffer pain.
Without the Guru, they are afflicted by immense sorrow and when seized by the death's courier, they bewail.
The Unapprehensible Lord's Name, I have easily received, by the Guru's grace.
The treasure of the Name abides within my mind and my tongue sings the Lord's praise.
Imbibing love for the one Name, day and night I ever remain in bliss.
The wealth of the Name, I have easily obtained. This all is the glory of the True Guru,
Through the True Guru, the Lord Master is enshrined within my mind, Unto the True Guru, I am ever a sacrifice.
Dedicating my soul and body, I place them all before the Guru, and fix my mind with his feet.
O my perfect Guru, shower thou thy benediction on me and unite me with thyself.
I am but iron and it is in the Guru's boat and ship, that I am ferried across, O Nanak.
Malar 4th Guru. Partal.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
O my Reverend Lord God, associating with Thine saints' congregation, thy slave ever utters Thy Name. Pause.
O man, deal thou only in the Lord's wealth and amass thou only the Lord's wealth, which no thief can steal.
Hearing the rumble of the clouds, the sparrow hawks and the peacocks chirp day and night.
Whatever the deer, the fish and the birds utter; without God they speak not of another.
Slave Nanak hymns the praise of the God and the noise of the death's myrmidon has all disappeared.
Malar 4th Guru.
Utter, utter thou the Lord's Name alone. Only the very fortunate ones seek Him, the Lord.
Whosoever points out to me the path of God; I repair to his feet. Pause.
God is my friend and succourer and to God bear I love.
I sing God's praise, the God's Name utter I and all other loves I have abandoned.
Bewitching is my Beloved, The Detached Lord God is the Embodiment of supreme bliss.
Nanak lives, seeing Thee, O God, my Master, Bless Thou me with Thine vision, even for an instant and a moment.
Rag Malar 5th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
What thou consider, what thou think and what effort thou make?
He, whose succourer is the World-Sustainer; say, under whose subservience can he be?
The cloud rains, O my mate. The Guest has walked into my home.
I am meek, My Master is an ocean of mercy. O God, merge me Thou in Thy Name, the giver of nine treasures. Pause.
I have in various ways prepared good many foods and many sweet dishes.
The kitchen I have made neat and pure, Now O Lord, the King, partake Thou of the viand.
The villains are destroyed and the friends are pleased. Now, O Lord, own Thou my this mansion and home, l
When the playful Beloved walked into my home, then obtained I all the comforts.
In the society of saints, I am blessed with the protection of the perfect Guru, for such was the predestined writ on my forehead.
Slave Nanak has attained unto his blissful spouse and now he shall suffer sorrow no more.
Malar 5th Guru.
When the child's food is only the milk, then without milk, it can live not.
The mother takes care of it and pours milk into its mouth and then he is sated and satiated.
I am a child and the Beneficent Lord is my father.
The child errs several and lakhs of times. He has no other place where he can go. Pause.
Mercurial is the mind of the poor child, He handles even snake and fire.
The mother and father keep him hugged to their bosom, then naturally plays he with joy.
He, whose father Thou are, O my Lord; what sort of hunger can that child have?
In Thy Home are the nine treasures of the Name's wealth, what his heart desires, that he receives.
The Kind father has given this order that whatever the Child asks for with his mouth, he be provided with that.
Child Nanak longs for the Lord's vision. May the Lords feet ever abide within my mind.
Malar 5th Guru.
Assembling all the means, I have made an effort and have abandoned all care.
Relaying upon the Lord, I have commenced setting aright all my household affairs.
I now hear the beauteous music of the celestial strain of the tenth gate.
The twilight has dawned and I now see the face of my Beloved and my home is filled with pleasure and peace. Pause.
Fixing my attention I have cleansed my mind's abode and now go to ask the saints about my Lord.
Seeking and searching I have met with my Groom and bowing at His feet, I now take to His devotional service.
When my spouse came to rest at the seat of my mind's home, then sang I the song of joy.
My friends and intimates were comforted when the Guru made me meet with my Perfect Lord.
Mine companions and mates are in bliss and the Guru has accomplished my tasks.
Says Nanak, I have met with my Spouse, the Giver of peace and leaving me He goes not after.
Malar 5th Guru.
From a king to a worm and from a worm to the Lord of gods, all fill their bellies, committing sins.
Forsaking God, the ocean of mercy, they who adore another; they are the self-killers and thieves.
They who forget their God; die they in travail and pain.
They wander in many species a number of time and find not refuge anywhere. Pause.
They, who forsaking the Lord, contemplate another, are foolish, idiotic, stupid and donkeys.
How can they cross the ocean in a paper-boat? Vainly assert they, that they shall reach ashore.
Shiva, Brahma, demons and gods, that there are, burn in the fire of death.
Nanak has sought the protection of the Lord's lotus feet. O my Creator-Lord, remove me Thou not from Thee afar.
Rag Malar 5th Guru. Dupadas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
He, the Lord of mine, is desireless and detached.
Without Him, I can live not even for an instant. I have come to embrace affection for Him. Pause.
By the saints ' grace, I have awakened and in their association, contemplate I, my Lord.
Hearing the saints' gospel, my mind has become immaculate and imbued with the Lord's love, I sing His praise.
Surrendering this soul of mine, I have made friends with the saints and by great good fortune they have become merciful to me.
Obtaining the dust of the saints feet, Nanak is blessed with supreme bliss which can be described not.
Malar 5th Guru.
O my mother, unite thou me with my love.
All my mates, in whose home the Beloved abides, sleep in peace to their fill. Pause.
I am meritless and my Master is ever Merciful. How can I, the virtueless one, play clever with my Lord.
I rival with those who are imbued with the love of their Beloved. This is my shamelessness form of self-conceit.
Becoming humble, I look to the one refuge of the ever bliss-giving great and Omnipotent True Guru.
In an instant, the Guru has rid me of all my pain and now the life-night of Nanak passes in peace.
Malar 5th Guru.
Burst thou forth, O sublime cloud and make not even a moment's delay.
O dear cloud, the support of my soul, burst forth thou, that my mind be comforted and be ever in bliss. Pause.
Thou are my mainstay, O my Lord. Why forget Thou me from Thy heart?
I, Thy beauteous bride, am like a hand-maiden of Thine. Without Thee, O my Groom, I look not glorious.
When my Master hearkened to my prayer. He came hurrying to me, in His mercy.
Says Nanak, I have now attained to my Groom and am blessed with honour, glory and the sublime way of life.
Malar 5th Guru.
O man, contemplate thou the True Name of Thy Beloved.
Enshrining the Guru's being within thy mind, thou shalt be rid of the pain and sorrow of the dreadful world-ocean. Pause.
Seeking the Lord's refuse the adversaries perish and the evil-doers are all destroyed.
Giving His hand, the Saviour has saved me and I have obtained the wealth of the Name.
Showering His benediction, the Lord has rid me of all my sins and has enshrined the immaculate Name in my mind.
God, the Treasure of virtues abides in my mind and so I shall suffer sorrow, no more, O Nanak.
Malar 5th Guru.
My loved Lord is dear unto me like my vital-breath.
O my compassionate Lord, Showing Thine mercy bless Thou me with Thy Love-worship and the Name. Pause.
I contemplate Thine feet, O my love and my heart throbs in Thy hope.
I pray to the pious persons and my mind thirsts for the vision of my Lord.
Separation from God is death and union with Him the life. O Lord, bless Thou Thy slave with Thine vision.
O Lord, be Thou merciful unto Nanak and bless him with Thy Name, which is his support, life and wealth.
Malar 5th Guru.
Now, I am on intimate terms with my love.
Contemplating my Lord, the King, I have attained peace, Burst forth thou, O bliss-giving cloud. Pause.
Even for an instant, I forget not my Lord, the ocean of peace. Through the Name, I have obtained the nine treasures.
Meeting with the helpful saints, my perfect destiny has awakened.
Embracing affection for the Supreme Lord, peace has welled up and all pain is eradicated.
Meditating on the Lord's feet, Nanak has crossed the difficult and dreadful world-ocean.
Malar 5th Guru.
Spreading all round, the cloud has rained over the whole world.
My Loved Lord has become merciful to me and I am blessed with joy, bliss and peace. Pause.
Contemplating the Transcendent Lord, within my mind, I am rid of my sorrows and my desire is all quenched.
Associating with the saints, comings and goings are ended and one, no more, wanders any where.
My soul and body are imbued with the Lord's immaculate Name and I am attuned to His lotus feet.
Servant Nanak has sought the protection of his Lord has made him His own.
Malar 5th Guru.
Separating from the Lord, O man, how can life live?
Within my mind is the yearning and hope to meet with my God and to in-drink the Nectar of His lotus feet. Pause.
They who thirsty for Thee, O my Beloved,  between them and Thee there is no separateness.
They who forget my loved Lord; they are like corpse and shall live not.
The Lord of the world is pervading my mind and body and I ever see Him just present.
Nanak, the Lord is contained amongst all and is fully-filling all the places.
Malar 5th Guru.
Which, which is that, who has been emancipated not through the Lord's meditation?
Even they, who assumed the body of a bird, the body of a fish, the body of a deer and the body of a boar, were saved, associating with the saints. Pause.
The families of gods, the families of demons, super gods, celestial singers and mortals did ferry across the ocean.
Whosoever meditates on the Lord in the society of saints; he is rid of his sorrow.
lust, wrath and the pleasures of the great sins; from these he remains aloof.
He contemplates his God Merciful to the meek and the Embodiment of compassion. Unto Him Nanak is ever a sacrifice.
Malar 5th Guru.
Today, I have sat in the Lord's shop.
With the wealth of God's Name, I have entered into partnership with the saints and now I shall go to the Yama's wharf. Pause.
Showing His mercy, the Transcendent Lord has saved me and my doors of doubt are flung open.
I have attained unto the Infinite Lord, the Merchant-Prince and have earned the profit of the wealth of the Lord's feet.
I have seized the protection of the Immovable and imperishable Lord and picking up the sins, have driven them out.
The strifes and sufferings of slave Nanak have ended and he shall not again enter body existence.
Malar 5th Guru.
In many a way, the love of mammon has cheated the mortal.
Some rare one amongst millions is the slave of God, who remains the Lord's perfect saint for long. Pause.
The body and wealth for which man undergoes trouble, by wandering, wandering hither and thither, ultimately become stranger to him.
Concealing from people, the mortal practises deception, and knows not Him, who is ever with him.
Because of this, he wanders in the travail of the low and helpless species of the deer, bird and fish.
Says Nanak, O Lord, float Thou me, the stone, that I may enjoy peace in the saints' A society.
Malar 5th Guru.
The evil-doers, have perished, by eating poison, O my mother.
He, to whom the beings belong, has saved them. My Lord has taken pity on them. Pause.
When God, the Inner-knower is contained within all, then why should I feel fear, O my brother?
God, my succourer, is with me. Leaving me He goes not away and I see the Lord in all the places.
God, the Master of the Masterless and the Master of the Masterless and the Destroyer of the sorrows of the meek, has Himself attached me to His skirt.
My God, Thine attendants live by thy prop, Nanak has sought the Lord's protection.
Malar 5th Guru.
O my soul, meditate thou on thy God's feet.
The Thirst of the Lord's vision has bewitched my mind I take wings to fly out to meet my God. Pause.
Seeking and searching, I have found this path, that I should serve the saints.
O my Lord, show Thou mercy unto me, that I may in-drink the great elixir of Thy Name.
Imploring and beseeching, I have entered Thy sanctuary, O Lord I am on fire, shower Thou Thine benediction on me.
Hold Thou me Thy slave, by Thy Hand, O Lord and make Nanak Thine own.
Malar 5th Guru.
The innate nature of God is to love His saints.
Crushing the slanderers, the Lord puts them beneath the feet of His saints and thus He manifests His glory. Pause.
His saints, the Lord glorifies in the whole world and for them, the Lord glorifies in the whole world and for them, the Lord infuses the sentiments of kindness amongst the beings.
Hugging to His bosom, the Lord saves His slave and allows not even the hot wind to touch him.
My Lord has made me His own and dispelling my doubt and dread has made me happy,
Enjoy supreme bliss, O ye slaves of God, as faith has welled up within my mind.
Rag Malar 5th Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, he is obtained.
Through the Guru, the Lord is seen permeating the whole universe.
Through the Guru, one sees the world to be extension of the Three modes.
Through the Guru, the mortal realises the import of celestial strain and religious texts.
Without the Perfect Guru, there is all pitch darkness.
O my soul, invoking the great Guru, eternal peace is obtained.
By the Guru's instruction, the Lord is enshrined within my mind and with every breath and morsel of mine contemplate I am Lord. Pause.
Unto the Guru's feet, I am a sacrifice.
Night and day, ever hymn I the praises of the Guru.
I bathe myself in the dust of the Guru's feet.
This wise, attain I honour in the True Court.
The Guru is the ship to ferry me across the terrible world ocean.
Meeting with the Guru, the mortal is cast not into existences,
That person alone is blessed with the service of the Guru,
in whose destiny it is so writ by the Primal Lord.
The Guru is my vital-breath and the Guru is my mainstay.
The Guru is my way of life and the Guru is my family.
The Guru is my Lord and I seek the protection of the True Guru.
Nanak, the Guru is the embodiment of the Supreme Lord, whose worth can be appraised not.
Malar 5th Guru.
The Guru's feet, I have enshrined within my mind,
and the Lord, has mercifully united me with Himself.
His slave, the Lord jokes to His service.
The worth of His slave can not be told.
O my Bliss-giving perfect Lord, show Thou mercy unto me.
By Thy grace, O Lord, I meditate upon Thee and remain imbued with Thy love, throughout the eight watches. Pause.
Singing and hearing Thy Name, O Lord, is all in Thy will.
Whosoever realises Thy will; he merges in the True Name.
He lives by contemplating, contemplating Thy Name,
and for him, without Thee, there is not other place.
O Creator-Lord, woe and weal are all in Thy command and will.
In Thy will Thou forgive and in Thy will Thou punish.
Of both the ends of here and hereafter, Thou Thyself are the Creator.
O Lord, I am a sacrifice unto Thine glory.
Thy worth, O God, Thou Thyself know.
Thou Thyself understand and hear and Thyself describe Thine wonders.
They alone are the saints, who are pleasing to Thee,
and Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto them, O Lord.
Malar 5th Guru.
The Transcendent Lord has become merciful,
and the cloud is pouring forth the ambrosial stream.
All the creatures are satiated,
and the affairs are perfectly well arranged.
O my soul, ever, ever remember thou thy Lord's Name.
Through the service of the Perfect Guru, I am blessed with the Name and it shall last with the Name and it shall last with me, here and hereafter. Pause.
The Lord is the Destroyer of pain and the Remover of fear.
He takes care of His beings.
The Saviour-Lord is ever merciful,
ever, ever I am a sacrifice unto Him.
The Creator-Lord, of Himself f has rid me of the fear of death.
Ever, ever contemplate thou Him, O my soul.
Casting His merciful glance, He protects all the beings.
Ever, ever hymn thou the praise of the Auspicious Lord, O man.
The Unique Creator is all by Himself.
God's saints realise His grandeur.
The Lord has been preserving the honour of His Name.
Made to speak by Him, Nanak utters the Lord's praise.
Malar 5th Guru.
In the Guru's refuge, man is blessed with all the treasures,
and he attains honour, in the True Court.
He is rid of all his doubt, dreads, pains and trouble,
and he ever sings God's praise in the society of the saints.
O my soul, ever praise thou thy perfect Guru.
Day and night, meditate thou on the Name treasure and obtain thy heart-desired fruits. Pause.
No one else is as great as the True Guru.
He, the Guru, is Himself the supreme Lord Master.
He saves man from the pain of birth and death,
and he tastes not again poison of mammon.
The Guru's glory can be uttered not.
By contemplating the True Name, The Guru has become the Lord's embodiment.
True is the Guru's self-discipline and true are all his deeds.
Immaculate is the man, who is imbued with the love of the Guru.
By the great good destiny, the Perfect Guru, is obtained.
From thy mind, though, drive out lust, wrath and avarice, O man,
Mercifully enshrine the Guru's feet in his mind!
Nanak thus prays to the True Lord.
Ram Malar 5th Guru. Partal.
There is bit One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Propitiating the Guru, I have made love with my Merciful Beloved.
I have made all the decorations,
have renounced all evils,
and my wandering mind has become still. Pause.
O my soul, still thou thy ego and associate with the saints. So shalt thou obtain thy Lord.
This wise the musical instruments and drums shall incessantly play for thee and thy tongue, like the cuckoo, shall with sweet words and very gracefully utter the Lord's Name.
My love, such is the glory of Thy vision, that it is exceedingly beauteous and fruitful So do Thy saints become through Thine association.
They, O Lord, utter Thy Name and Thou ferriest them across the world-ocean.
Associating with the God's associates,
they tell the rosary of their Lord Master's Name with their heart.
O slave Nanak, the Beloved Lord becomes sweet unto them.
Malar 5th Guru.
My mind passes through the dense forest.
In the desire of meeting with its Lord,
it walks with zeal and love. Pause.
The mammon of the three qualities has come to entice me. To whom should I tell of my pain?
I have made all other efforts, but they could rid me not of my sorrow.
Hasten thou to the saints' sanctuary, O Nanak and meeting with them hymn thou the World-Lord's praise.
Malar 5th Guru.
Beauteous and sublime is the glory of my love.
The celestial singers, Haha and Huhu by Name and fairies sing His sublime praise with joy bliss and love. Pause.
The men of merits hymn the Lord's beauteous melodies in various ways and manifest His superb forms by myriad kinds.
In mountains, trees, deserts, oceans, universes and all hearts, the beauteous grandeur of my beloved is fully pervading.
He, who has sublime faith, O Nanak, is blessed with the love of the Omnipresent Lord, in the society of the saints.
Malar 5th Guru.
Through the love of the Guru, I have enshrined within my mind the lotus feet of my Beloved.
Beholding the Guru's sight, I have seen the Lord's accredited vision and I am rid, rid of my sins.
My mind has now become immaculate and enlightened.
Wonderstruck, wonderstruck, wonderstruck have I become.
Uttering the Lord's Name millions of my sins are washed off.
Placing my forehead on them, I have fallen at the Guru's feet.
Thou alone, Thou alone, O God, are my Lord.
Thine devotees seek but Thy support.
Slave Nanak has sought the protection of Thy door, O Lord.
Malar 5th Guru.
In the will of Lord's, O cloud, burst with happiness,
that I may be blessed with all bliss and good fortune. Pause.
As the earth is reverdured, receiving the rain, so flowers the mind in the saints, so flowers the mind in the society of saints.
The peacock loves the cloud's rumbling,
The pied cuckoo's mind goes towards the rain-drop.
Such love my soul has with the Lord.
The deceitful mammon, I have renounced.
Meeting with the saints, Nanak's mind has awakened.
Malar 5thGuru.
Ever sing thou the praises of the Lord,
and enshrine the Master's Name in thy mind. Pause.
Associating with the saints, forsake thou self-conceit and still thy ego.
Contemplating the One Lord with Love, thy sorrows shall be ended, O friend.
When the Transcendent Lord becomes Merciful,
then all the entanglements of mammon are past.
Clinging to the feet of the holy persons,
Nanak ever sings the praise of the Lord of the World.
Malar 5th Guru.
The Guru, the embodiment of God, roars like the cloud.
He sings the Lord's praise and so is in peace and bliss. Pause.
The refuge of God's feet ferries man across the world-ocean and the Guru's ambrosial word is the Unstruck melody.
The thirsty way-farer's mind is attached to the Guru-Tank to obtain the spiritual water,
Slave Nanak loves to see the Lord's vision and the Lord, in His mercy, has blessed him with it.
Malar 5th Guru.
O Lord of the World, O Cherisher of the Universe, O my Compassionate Beloved. Pause.
Thou are the Lord of the vital-breath, the Comrade of the Masterless and the Destroyer of the pain of the poor.
O my Omnipotent, Unfathomable and Omnipresent Lord, show thou mercy unto me.
Ferry Thou me across the very terrible, blind well of the world, says Nanak.
Malar 1st Guru. Ashtpadies.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The she-ruddy goose desires not sleepy eyes and has no sleep, without her beloved.
When the sun rises, she sees her beloved, with her eyes and bowing low, touches His feet,
The Love of my Beloved is dear unto me, It shall be my succourer in the yond.
Without Him, I can live not in this world, even for an instant, such is my hunger and thirst for Him. Pause.
The lotus in the tank, naturally blossoms seeing the rays of the sun, in the sky.
Such an affection I have cultivated in my mind for my Beloved, That my light has blended with His supreme Light.
Without water, the sparrow hawk cries, "O beloved, O my beloved" and wails and laments.
The roaring cloud rains in ten directions, but without the rain drop its thirst departs not.
The fish, which is born and lives in water, obtains weal and woe according to its past deeds.
She can live not without water even for an instant, a moment and a trice, Her death and life depends upon it.
The bride separated from her groom, who resides in his own country. She sends Him a message through the True Guru.
She obtains many virtues, enshrines her Lord in her mind and imbued with His devotional service becomes Happy.
Every one cries out, "Beloved, my Beloved", but he alone obtains the beloved, who is pleasing to the Guru.
The Beloved is with us. He ever associates with the True Through His grace, He unites the mortal in His union.
He, the Lord is the life within all the lives and is pervading all the hearts.
By the Guru's grace, the Lord has become manifest in my very home and I have easily merged in Him,
Meeting with the Bliss-giving Lord, O man, thyself arrange thou thy affair.
When by the Guru's grace, man finds the Love in his very home, then is his inner-fire quenched.
Malar 1st Guru.
Awake, ever awake remain I in the Guru's service and without God, no one is mine.
Inspite of making various efforts, the body stays not and melts away like glass in the fire.
Say, O man, why thou take pride on this body and wealth?
They take no time in perishing. O mad man, in such a way the world is wasting away in pride and ego. Pause.
Hail! Hail is unto the Master, who is the Lord and the saviour of the world. He, the Lord protects and assays the mortals.
As much as the creation is, that much belongs to Thee, O Lord. None else is equal to Thee.
Creating the beings, Thou keep under Thy control their life-deportment and Thyself bless them with the collyrium of gnosis through the Guru.
My Eternal 'and Masterless Lord is over the head of all He is the Destroyer of death, birth, doubt and dread.
This poor world together with its colour, form and cleverness is a fortress of paper.
A little drop of water or a puff of wind mars its glory and in an instant, ends its existence.
As is a house or a tree near the bank of a river, or is a serpent's lair in the home, so is duality in the mortal's mind.
When the river overflows, where can the house or tree be, or when the serpent stings, how can the mortal escape death?
Through the spell of the Guru's wisdom, the contemplation of the Guru's word and the Guru's instruction the sins are burnt.
Through the wondrous meditation of the Lord, the mind and body are cooled and one attains truth.
As much as the creation is, That much begs of Thee, O Lord. Thou are Merciful to all the beings.
O Lord, I have sought Thy refuge. Save Thou my honour and bless me with Thy True Name.
Bound in worldly affairs, the blind man sees not and does the butcher's deeds.
If he meets with the True Guru, then alone he sees and realises and the true knowledge enters his mind.
Consulting my Guru, I have found out that without the True Name, this meritless body is but false.
Nanak, the Guru-God has shown me the Lord Without the True Name, the world is all a dream.
Malar 1st Guru.
The pied cuckoo and the fish find peace through water, and to the deer the bell's note is pleasing
The sparrow hawk chirps during the night, O my mother. Pause.
If such be Thy will, O Lord, then my love for Thee, O my love, shall sunder not ever.
My sleep is gone, my self-conceit is stilled from my body and the true instruction has permeated my mind.
Flying amidst trees and plants I remain hungry, but by lovingly in-drinking the Name I am satiated.
Mine eyes gaze is fixed on Thee, my tongue cries out thy Name and I thirst for Thine vision, O Lord of the will.
Without my Love, the more decorations I make, the more my body burns and the clothes become not my body.
Without my Beloved, I can live not even for an instant and without meeting Him, I have no sleep.
The Groom is all-too-near but the wretched bride knows it not. The true Guru makes her see her Groom.
When the Spouse meets all-too-spontaneously, then attain I peace and through the Name, my desire is quenched.
Says Nanak, O Lord, it is through The, that my mind is propitiated. I can say not Thy price, O my Master.
Malar 1st Guru. Ashtapadis.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
The entire earth is bent with the weight of the water of the oceans,
the high mountains and the ditches, deep like the under-world.
Reflecting on the Guru's word, the oceans are calmed,
self conceit is stilled and the way of salvation is found.
I, the blind one, am illumined by the Lord's Name.
I have the Name's support alone and walk on the mysterious path in the fear of the Guru. Pause.
Through the True Guru's word, God's way is known.
By the support of the Guru, one is blessed with the power of the True Lord,
and one remembers the Name, through the beauteous Gurbani.
If Thou so will, O Lord, then man recognises Thy door.
Flying in the sky or sitting on the ground, my attention is fixed in the One Lord.
By virtue of the Guru's word, the Lord's Name has become my mainstay.
For me now there is neither any ocean nor the high range of mountains.
I abide in my own Home, where there is no path, nor any way-farer.
Thou alone know the way to the House, in which Thou dwell, O Lord, no one else can know Thine mansion.
Without the True Guru, understanding is attained not. The whole world is weighed down by the night mare of mammon.
Though man may make efforts and lamentations, but without the Guru, he can realise not the Name.
If mortal knows the Guru's word, the Name gets him released in the twinkling of an eye.
Some are foolish, blind, stupid and ignorant.
Some there are, who through the Guru's fear lean on the Lord's Name.
The Guru's word is true, sweet and the stream of Nectar,
Whosoever in-drinks it, he obtains the door of emancipation.
Great is the way of life and true the speech of him, who through the Lord's fear and love enshrines His Name within his mind.
When the Guru-cloud rains, mind's earth becomes beauteous and one sees God's Light pervading all the hearts.
Such is the insignia of the Guruless evil-minded man, that he sows the seed in the saline-land.
Without the True Guru, there is appalling darkness and one is drowned to death, even when there is no water.
Whatever the Lord does, that is in His will.
Whatever is predestined, that can be erased not.
Bound in the Lord's will, man does the deeds,
Permeating in the One Name one merges in the True Lord.
Thy will, O Lord, works in the four directions and Thy Name is pervading the four sides of the nether-world as well.
Amongst all, the True Lord's Name is contained and by His own grace, the Lord is met.
Birth, death, hunger, sleep and exit are seen standing over the heads of all
Says Nanak, O Lord, the Home of bliss, by Thine true grace, bless Thou me with Thy Name, which is pleasing to my mind.
Malar 1st Guru.
Thou know not the state and condition of death and emancipation.
Thou are sitting on the river-bank. Thou should realise thy Lord, through the Guru's word.
O crane, how are thou trapped in the net?
Thou do not understand and remember thy Unseeable Lord in thy heart. Pause.
For thy one life, thou eat several beings.
Thou were enjoined to swim in water, but thou are now drowned in water.
Thou has tortured all the beings.
When death seizes thee, then shalt thou grieve.
When thy neck is loaded with a very heavy noose,
spreading thine wings, thou shalt not be able to fly away.
Thou joyfully pick thy victim, O willful fool.
Thou are ensnared. Through virtues, Divine knowledge and the Lord's meditation, thou can delivered.
Serving the True Guru, the net of the death's myrmidon is shattered.
Within thy mind contemplate thou the True Name.
Whosoever acts up to the true advice and sublime instruction of the Guru;
he keeps God's Name clasped to his heart.
He, who indulges in sexual pleasures here, is in pain hereafter.
Nanak, without the True Name, one attains not emancipation.
Malar 3rd Guru. Ashtpadis.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's He is obtained.
When the Lord is merciful, then alone the mortal attains unto the True Guru, Without His grace he is obtained not.
When such is the Lord's well, meeting with the True Guru, man is transmuted into gold.
O my soul, fix thou thy mind with thy Lord Master's Name.
Through the True Guru, the True God is obtained and one remains blended with one's God. Pause.
Through the True Guru, Divine knowledge wells up and then is this doubt dispelled.
Through the True Guru, the Lord is realised and one is cast not into womb existences again.
By the Guru's grace, the mortal dies in life and after so dying lives only to practice the Name.
He alone obtains the door of salvation, who stills his ego from within himself.
Banishing mammon from within him, by the Guru's grace, man is reborn into the Lord's home.
The person, who eats the uneatable, is blessed with discerning, intellect and meets with the Supreme Person.
The unknowing world is a passing show and in it, man departs losing his very capital.
The profit of the God's Name is procured in the saints congregation, but it is through the Lord's grace, that one is blessed with it.
Without the True Guru, no one attains unto the Lord. Think it out in thy mind and see, O man.
By the great good fortune, man meets with the Guru and crosses the terrible world-ocean.
The Lord and the Lord's Name is my sole protections and I have but the support of the Lord God's Name.
O Sire God, show Thou mercy unto me and unite me with the Guru, that I may obtain the door of salvation.
The writ, predestined on the forehead, by the supreme Lord, can be erased not.
O Nanak, only those persons become perfect, to whom the Lord's will is pleasing.
Malar 3rd Guru.
The world is involved in the sermons of the Vedas and reflects on the three modes.
Without the Name, it suffers punishment of the Death's courier and comes and goes over and over again.
Meeting with the True Guru, it is emancipated and obtains the door of salvation.
O man, be thou absorbed in the True Guru's service.
By great good destiny, the Perfect Guru is obtained and one meditates on the Lord Guru's Name. Pause.
In His will, God has created the world and Himself provides it with sustenance.
In His will, the Lord makes the man's mind immaculate and he is attuned to the Lord.
In the Lord's well, man meets with the True Guru, who is the embellisher of his entire life.
Praiseworthy, praiseworthy and true is the Guru's word, Some rare God Conscious being understands this thing.
Uttering "Bravo, bravo, bravo" praise thou the Lord No one else is as great as He.
When man becomes the recipient of God's grace, then forgiving him, He unites him with Himself.
The True Guru has shown me the supreme True Lord.
When the True Lord rains His Name Nectar, my soul is satiated and remains attuned to Him.
Through the God's name, the soul ever remains fresh and dries and withers not again.
Without the True Guru no one attains unto the Lord, Let any one examine and see it.
By God's grace one obtains the True Guru and then meets with the Lord all-too-spontaneously.
The egocentric strays in doubt and without good destiny obtains not the Lord's wealth.
The very idea of three qualities is all mammon, which people read, read and reflect upon,
They are emancipated not ever nor obtain they the door of salvation.
Without the True Guru, bonds are loosed nor, nor is the love for the Lord's Name embraced.
The Pandits and silent sages have grown weary of reading, reading and studying the Vedas.
They contemplate not the Lard's Name nor abide they in their own Home.
The death's myrmidon stands over their head and due to their inner deception, they are ruined.
Everyone longs for the God's Name, but without good destiny it is obtained not.
When the Lord shows mercy, man meets with the Guru and the God's Name comes to abide in his mind,
Nanak, through the Name, honour is produced and one remains blended with the Lord.
Malar 3rd Guru. Ashtpadi.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
When the Lord God shows mercy, He yokes man to the Guru's service.
Ridding man of his pain, He makes him cherish the Lord's Name in his mind,
Fixing Attention on the True Lord, true salvation is obtained,
and the mortal hears the Guru's word and the Lord's Name.
O my soul, serve thou thy Lord Master, the Treasure of bliss.
By the Guru's grace God's wealth is obtained and night and day man's attention remains fixed on the Lord. Pause.
The bride who makes decorations without her Groom,
is said to be of low character and is ever wasted away.
This is the useless way of life of the egocentric,
that forgetting the Name, he performs many other rituals.
The Embellishments befit the pious bride,
who under the Guru's instruction, keeps her Groom enshrined in her heart.
Stilling her ego, she who realises the One Lord;
illustrious is said to be that bride.
Without the beneficent Guru, no one can ever attain unto the Lord.
The avaricious egocentric is enticed away by duality.
Some rare God-conscious being, Realises this wise,
that without meeting with the Guru, one is emancipated not.
Every one utters the stories often narrated by others.
Without stilling his mind, man can worship not the Lord.
Through the Divinely intellect, man's heart-lotus blossoms,
and the name alone abides within him mind.
Abiding in ego, every one serves the Lord.
This wise neither the mind is softened, nor peace is procured.
By telling and narrating religious anecdotes the mortal exhibits his self-conceit.
Vain is his service and he wastes away his entire life.
They alone are the saints, who are pleasing to the mind of the True Guru.
Night and day, l they remain attuned to the Lord's Name,
They see the Lord, ever before them,
Through the Guru's word, they behold the Lord fully-filling all.
Of Himself, the Lord forgives and blesses with His love.
The world is afflicted with the great malady of self-conceit.
By the Guru's grace, this malady is eradicated,
and the mortal merges in the True Name of the True Lord, O Nanak.
Ram Malar. Chant 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
My loved Lord is the Giver of His love-worship, He is imbued with the love of His slave
He ever loves His slave,
and forgets not His slave from His mind, even for a moment.
God, the Cherisher of the creation and the Treasure of virtues is ever with me, The Lord of the Universe possess all the merits.
With His feet, He has fascinated my mind and I, His serf; am intoxicated with the love of His Name.
Ever merciful is my Beloved, O Nanak. Some rare one, out of millions realises Him.
O my love, infinite are Thou and indescribable is Thine state.
Thou has saved even the great sinners.
He, the Lord, is the Purifier of the sinners, the lover of His devotees and the ocean of mercy.
In the saints' A society unhesitatingly contemplate thou thy Lord and ever utter the name of thy God, the Searcher of hearts.
They, who wandered in species through millions of births; them Thou has emancipated through Thy Name's meditation.
Nanak is thirsty for Thine vision, O Reverend Lord. Take care of him Thou, Thyself.
O God, my soul is absorbed in Thine lotus-feet.
My Lord, Thou are water and Thy serfs are Thy fish.
O Sire Lord, Thou alone are the water and the fish. I realise that there is no distinction between the two.
Hold Thou me by the arm and bless me with Thy Name. Through Thy grace alone, I can attain glory.
Associating with the saints, lovingly meditate thou on the One Lord, merciful to the meek.
Helpless and groveling Nanak has sought the protection of God, who has, in his mercy, made him His own.
He Himself unites His saints with Himself,
The God, the King and the Destroyer of doubt.
My wondrous Lord is the searcher of hears. My Love, the treasure of virtues, has mercifully met with me.
By ever remembering the excellences of the World-Lord, supreme bliss and peace have welled up within me.
Meeting with Thee, O my Lord, I am embellished and seeing Thee, I am fascinated and I and I have obtained what was predestined for me.
Prays Nanak, I seek the refuge of those who meditate on their Lord Master.
Var of Malar. 1st Guru. To be sung to the tune of Rana Kailash and Malda.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is attained.
Slok 3rd Guru.
On meeting the Guru, the soul blossoms, as, the earth is embellished after the bursting forth of the cloud.
Everything appears green and the ponds and the tanks are filled to the brim.
The love of the True Lord attached to the mind as redness to the madder.
Obeying the True Lord, the heart lotus blooms and one is rendered happy, through the Guru's word.
The wayward person is on the other side of God. Ascertain thou this by seeing with thy eyes.
Like the deer ensnared in the net, the death's courier is seen standing over his head.
Vile are hunger, thirst and slander and terrible are lust and wrath.
Until one reflects not on the Guru's word, one sees not the Lord with these eyes.
Whosoever is pleasing to Thee, O Lord; he becomes content and his domestic.
involvements are past, Serving the Guru, man's capital is saved. The Guru is the ladder and the boat of salvation.
Nanak, whosoever is attached to the Lord; he receives His quintessence. Thou, O True Lord, are attained through the true mind.
1st Guru.
There is but One road and one door. The Guru is the ladder to reach one's own place.
Beauteous is the Lord, O Nanak. All the comforts are in the True Name.
Pauri.
Of Himself, the Lord created Himself and He alone knows Himself.
Separating the sky and the earth, He has spread the canopy of the firmament.
Making His command manifest, the Lord has supported the sky without pillars.
Creating the sun and the moon, the Lord infused His light within them.
He created the night and day. Wondrous are His wondrous plays.
The Lord created the places of pilgrimage, where the mortals reflect upon goodness and bathe on the auspicious occasions.
Equal to Thee, there is not any other, O Lord, How can I describe and narrate Thee?
Thou are seated on the Eternal Throne, O Lord, All others but come and go.
Slok 1st Guru.
Nanak, if it rains in the month of Swan, the four things feel great joy.
The Serpent, the deer, the fish and the revellers, who have wealth in their home.
1st Guru.
Nanak if it rains in the month of swan, the four things suffer separation.
They are the cow's calves, the poor, the way-farers and the servants.
Pauri.
O True Lord, True are those, who dispense nothing but truth.
The lotus-like, Thou sit in trance and are hidden from the eyes.
Brahma is called great, but he too knows not Thy limit.
He has no father, nor a mother, Who has begotten Thee, O my Lord.
He has neither the form nor the sign Of all the castes, He has none,
He has no hunger and thirst and is sated and satiated.
The Lord has merged His ownself in the Guru through whom dispenses He His Name.
By pleasing the true Lord, the mortal merges in True Lord.
Slok 1st Guru.
The physician is sent for to prescribe a remedy. Seizing my arm, he feels the pulse.
The simpleton physician knows not, that the pain is in the mind.
2nd Guru.
O physician, amongst physician thou are an bale physician, if thou first diagnoses the malady.
Find out thou such a medicament with which multitudes of maladies may be eradicated,
Administer thou such a medicine, by which maladies may depart and peace may come and abide in the body.
When thou are rid of thy own ailment, then alone, thou shall be called a physician, O Nanak.
Pauri.
It is the Lord, who created Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva and other gods.
He Blessed Brahma with the Vedas and Yoked him to His adoration.
The Lord created ten incarnations, of whom one was king Rama.
In His will, they hastened to kill all the demons,
The holy men and Shiva serve Thee, O Lord, but they can find not Thy end.
Of Himself, the Lord has established His throne and of Himself, He evaluates the true worth of the beings.
He has yoked the world to its tasks and keeps Himself, hid from its eye.
The Primal Being has enjoined upon the mortal to do the deeds of virtue.
Slok 2nd Guru.
The month of Swan has come, O my mate. Now think thou of thy Groom.
Nanak, the discarded bride loves another and so wailes herself to death.
2nd Guru.
The month of Swan has come, O my friend. The clouds have burst forth.
Nanak, the loved brides, who love their groom, sleep in peace.
Pauri.
Arranging the tournament, the Lord of Himself, has created an arena for the wrestlers.
Making noise, the wrestlers have entered the arena and From amongst them, the Guru-wards are in joy.
The foolish and false egocentrics stand defeated.
The Lord Himself stages the play. Himself He wrestles and Himself He defeats.
The Lord of all is the One God, but this thing is known only by the Guru's grace.
The Lord of will writes the destinies on the heads of all without pen and ink.
Through the society of the saints, where the Lord's praises are ever uttered, union with him is obtained.
Nanak, by praising the True Lord, one comes to realise the Lords truth.
Slok 3rd Guru.
When man ages, his body bows and bends forward and assumes quit another colour.
What do I know, how shall my love last with that Sovereign of mind?
Everlasting is the Love of those brides, who heartily love their Spouse in His fear.
Nanak, the bride, who is bereft of the fear and love of her Lord; her body gathers not peace.
3rd Guru.
Descending low, very low, the cloud has come and the pure water falls.
Nanak, the bride whose mind is torn from her groom suffers pain.
Pauri.
Creating both the sides, He, the One Lord, is pervading both.
Spreading the gospel of the Vedas he has brought about strife between the two.
Attachment and department are the two sides and it is the faith that discriminates between the two.
False and worthless are the egocentrics, Verily lose they in the Lord's court.
They, who practice the Guru's instruction are the Lord's warriors, who have stilled their lust and wrath.
They, who are, embellished with the Name, enter into the True Lord's mansion.
The saints, who love the True Name, are pleasing to Thee, O Lord.
They, who serve their True Guru, unto them I am a sacrifice.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The lowering, lowering clouds come and rain falls continuously.
Nanak, the bride who walks in the Will of her Spouse, she; ever enjoys revelments.
3rd Guru.
Why are you standing and standing to look, O poor man? This cloud has nothing in its hands.
He, who has sent this cloud; Him treasure thou up in thy mind.
On whosoever is the Lord's grace' he alone enshrines the Lord in his mind.
Nanak, all those, who are shorn of God's grace, make lamentations.
Pauri.
Ever, serve thou the Lord, who takes no time to create and to destroy.
The Lord alone has stretched the sky overhead, In an instant, He builds and destroys.
Himself creating the world, He, the Lord gives thought to his creation.
An apostate is called to account in the yond and he is greatly punished.
The account of the pious person is settled with honour and him the Lord blesses with the treasure of his praise.
There one's hand reaches not and no one hears one's cries and wailings.
There, the True Guru becomes man's friend and saves him at the last moment.
These creatures should serve none else but the True Guru, who is the Creator's ambassador over their heads.
Slok 3rd Guru.
O sparrow-hawk, every one longs for Him onto whom thou call.
When the Lord showers His benediction, then does it rain and the forests and grass-blades shall flower.
By the Guru's grace the Lord is attained to, Few are they, who understand this thing.
Sitting and standing, continually remember thou thy God and thou shalt be in peace for ever and aye.
Nanak, the Lord's nectar, ever continues raining, he, the Lord blesses the mortal with it, through the Guru.
3rd Guru.
When the world is in distress, it prays to the Lord in love.
Giving His ear, the True Lord listens and comforts it all-too-spontaneously.
The Lord orders the cloud-God and the rain falls in torrents.
Corn and wealth are produced in great abundance and their worth can be told not.
O Nanak, praise thou the Name of God, who reaches and gives sustenance to all the beings.
By eating which joy wells up and pain clings not to the mortal again.
Pauri.
O sire Master, Thou are the Truest of the True and Thou blend with Thyself the man of truth.
The others are on the side of duality. They deal in falsehood and can meet not the Lord.
Thou thyself unite and separate and Thyself exhibits Thine Omnipotence, O Lord.
Worldly love makes man experience sorrow of separation and his presented writ.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who remain attuned to the Lord's feet.
The Lord has made such a make of those, that they remain detached like the lotus in water.
Ever blissful and beauteous are they, who from within themselves banish their self-conceit.
They, who are merged in the Lord's Being, experience not sorrow and separation ever.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Praise thou Him, O Nanak in whose power lies everything.
O mortals, perform ye the service of that Lord without Him, there is not any other.
If by the Guru's grace, the Lord God abides in the mind, then man is ever, ever in peace.
He is ridden not with doubt ever and from within him all the anxiety is eliminated.
Whatever happens, that happens spontaneously and the mortal has no say in anything.
If the True Lord abides within man's mind, then, obtains he, his heart-desired boons.
Nanak, the Lord Himself hears the word of those, whose Name He enters in his account book.
3rd Guru.
The Lord's nectar ever rains. The man of wisdom alone understands this thing.
He, who by the Guru's grace, realises this, keeps the Lord's nectar enshrined in his mind.
They who still their ego and desire, ever in-drink the Lord's Nectar and remain imbued with His love,
The Nectar is the Lord's Name and it rains when the Lord showers His benediction.
O Nanak, by the Guru's grace, the Lord God, the Supreme Soul and the enemy of ego, is seen.
Pauri.
How can the Unweighable Lord be weighed? Without weighing Him, He can be obtained not.
Reflecting on the Lord through the Guru's word, one remains merged in virtue.
His ownself, the Lord of Himself weighs, He alone, whom He Himself makes meet, meets with Him.
His worth can be ascertained not and apropos this absolutely nothing can be said.
I am a sacrifice unto my Guru, who has imparted unto me, the true understanding.
The world is being beguiled and the Nectar is being plundered, but the egocentric understands it not.
Without the Name, nothing shall go with him and he shall depart, after wasting his life.
They who remain awake, by the Guru's instruction, keep their home intact and the demons become helpless.
Slok 3rd Guru.
O pied-cuckoo, wail not, nor allow this soul of thine to long for water,
Obey thou thy Lord's command. Nanak by submitting to His will, m thy thirst shall be quenched and thou shalt have fourfold love for Him,
3rd Guru.
O pied-cuckoo, in water is thy dwelling and in the water thou wander.
Thou know not the worth of the water, therefore thou wail.
On the water and the land, it rains in four directions and no place is bereft of the rain.
Inspite of so much rainfall, they who die of thirst, are but unfortunate.
Nanak, they alone, within whose mind the Lord abides, obtain understanding by the Guru's grace.
Pauri.
The nine great yogis, six celibates, eighty-four men of miracles and the religious guides; of all these no one knows the Lord's limit.
Contemplating the Name, through the Guru. One merges in Thee, O my Master.
For thirty-six ages, the Lord abided in utter darkness. For such was His will.
All round Himself He has created the water, the terrible water.
He, the Creator-Lord of all is endless, infinite and inaccessible.
He it is, who created wrath, strife, hunger and thirst.
Death hovers, saves those whom He causes to realise His Name,
The saviour-Lord, saves those whom He causes to realise His Name.
Slok 3rd Guru.
This water rains on every one. The Lord by His lovable disposition makes it fall
The trees, which by the Guru's grace remain merged in the Lord, become green.
Nanak, by God's peace wells up and the pain of these creatures departs.
3rd Guru.
On a dewy night, lightening flashes and it rains in torrents.
If it be the will of the Lord, much corn and wealth are produced there where it rains.
By partaking of which, the soul is satiated and the creatures adopt the pure way of life.
This wealth is the sport of the Creator. Sometimes it comes and sometimes goes.
The wealth of the God-conscious being is the Lord's Name and in it he ever remains merged.
Nanak, they on whom the Lord casts His merciful glance; they are forthwith blessed with this wealth.
Pauri.
The Lord Himself causes to do and Himself does everything, Then before whom am I to complain?
He, of Himself calls men to account and of Himself He makes them do the deeds
Whatever pleases Him, that alone comes Him, that alone comes to pass, It is only the fool who asserts his command.
Of Himself, the Lord is the Pardoner. By His delivering alone, one is delivered.
The Lord Himself sees and Himself hears everything, to all the beings He lends His support.
He alone is contained amongst all and gives thought to one and all.
Understanding his ownself, the Guru's grace, the mortal is attuned to the True Lord.
Who is one to ask, O Nanak, when the Lord, of Himself, is the only Giver.
Slok 3rd Guru.
This world is a sparrow hawk. Let no one go astray in doubt.
This sparrow hawk is in animal and it has no understanding.
God's Name is the Nectar by in-drinking which thirst departs,
O Nanak, the Guru-wards, who quaff the Name-Nectar; they are haunted not by thirst again.
3rd Guru.
The Malar is a peace-bestowing measure, contemplating God in it, coolness is obtained
When the Sire Lord shows His mercy, then one sees Him pervading the whole world.
Through the rainfall, the creatures obtain the means of subsistence and the earth is embellished.
Nanak, this world is all water and from the water and from the water everything has sprung.
By the Guru's grace, some rare one realises the Lord, Such a man is ever emancipated.
Pauri.
O my care-free True Lord, Thou alone are my Master.
Thou Thyself are all-in-all, whom else should I deem to be of any account?
False is man's self-conceit and True is Thy glory, O Lord.
Creating coming and going, Thou did bring into being the world.
Whosoever serves his True Guru' his advent alone is of account.
If man's ego is banished from within him then how can he compute computation of doing this and that?
Like a man in wilderness an egocentric strays in the inky darkness of worldly love.
A mere iota of the Lord's Name effaces millions of sins.
Slok 3rd Guru.
O pied-cuckoo, thou know not the mansion of thy Lord. Make thou supplication to see thy Lord's mansion.
In thy love thou utter much, but thine utterance becomes not acceptable.
Thy Lord is the Great Giver. Whatever thou desire, that fruit thou shalt obtain from Him.
To say nothing of the poor pied-cuckoo, even the thirst of the whole world is quenched by the Lord.
3rd Guru.
In a dewy night, the sparrow hawk, instinctively utters the True Name, with love.
This water is my life-breath. Without water I can live not.
By the Guru's instruction the water of life is obtained and ego is dispelled from within.
Nanak, the True Guru, has made me meet Him, without whom I can live not even for a moment.
Pauri.
Countless are the continents and the under-worlds, I can reckon them not.
Thou are the Creator and the Lord of the world, Thou create it and destroy it.
The eighty four lacs of species have issued forth from Thee, O Lord.
Some are called kings, chiefs and emperors.
Amassing wealth, some call themselves wealthy men and they lose their honour in another's love.
Some are the givers and some the beggars. He, the Lord, is over the head of all.
Bereft of the Lord's Name, the Mortals are but loafers and become dreadful in the end.
Falsehood fails, O Nanak and that alone comes to pass, a which the True Lord does.
Slok 3rd Guru,
O pied-cuckoo, the virtuous bride mounts to her Lord's mansion and the impious one is far removed from it.
Within thee abides thy Lord and by the Guru's grace, He is seen ever present.
When the Merciful Master sees the mortal with His eye of grace, he no more cries and wails.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the Lord's Name and practise the Guru's word; they easily meet with the Lord.
3rd Guru.
The pied-cuckoo prays, "O Lord, mercifully bless Thou me with the gift of spiritual life".
Without Thy Name-water, my thirst is quenched not and my life comes to an end.
Thou, O Bliss-Bestowing infinite Lord, are the Giver of the treasure of virtues
Nanak, the Illustrious Lord pardons the pious person and becomes his friend in the end.
Pauri.
Creating the World of Himself, the Lord gives thought to the virtues and sins of the mortals.
Whosoever loves not the Name; he is wholly involved in the entanglements of the world of three qualities.
Forsaking virtue, they who practise sin, become miserable in the Lord's Court.
They lose their life in the game of chance, What did they come in this world for?
They come to still their mind through the True Name and day and night love the Lord's Name,
the persons, who enshrine the True, Unseeable and infinite Lord in their mind.
Thou, O Lord, are the Giver and Treasure of virtues, and I am but a sinner.
He alone attains unto Thee, O Lord, whom Thou pardon and he alone reflects on the Guru's word.
Slok 5th Guru.
The life night of the mammon-worshippers, who forget the Lord's Name, Passes not in peace.
By singing the praise of God, O Nanak, comfortable become the Nights and days.
5th Guru.
The acquisition of all the rubies, gems, pearls and emeralds is writ on one's brow.
Nanak, they who are pleasing to the Lord look beauteous in the True Court.
Pauri.
Serving the true Satguru, I have meditated upon the True Lord.
The service rendered unto the True Guru, avails one in the end.
Death's courier can touch not him whom the True Lord protects.
Lighting the lamp of the Guru's instruction, I have illumined my mind,
False are the egocentrics, with out the Lord's Name, They wander about like demons.
They are animals, wrapped up in human skin and are black from within.
The True Lord is pervading all and through the True Name,
He is seen Nanak, the Name is the treasure of bliss and the Perfect Guru has shown it to me.
Slok 3rd Guru.
Through the Guru, the pied-cuckoo can realise the Lord's will all too-spontaneously.
Showing mercy the cloud bursts forth in heavy torrents.
Crying and wailing of the pied-Cuckoo have ceased and peace has come to abide within his mind,
Nanak, praise thou That Lord who reaches and gives sustenance to all the creatures.
3rd Guru.
O pied-cuckoo, thou know not what thirst there is within thee and by what draught, this thirst shall be quenched.
Thou wander in another's love and obtain not the Lord's ambrosial water.
If God casts His merciful glance, then the True Guru is met all-too spontaneously.
Nanak, the ambrosial water is obtained from the True Guru and one remains merged in the Lord.
Pauri.
Some go and sit in the forest regions and respond not to a call.
Some there are, who in the winter season shatter their body with ice and ice cold water.
Some besmear their body-limbs with ashes and wash off not their filth.
Some wear unshorn matted locks and look hideous. They thus dishonour their lineage and dynasty.
Some day and night wander about naked and sleep not a sound sleep.
Some there are, who burn their body-limbs in fire and this wise ruin themselves.
Without the Lord's Name, man's body is reduced to ashes. Of what avail is then saying and wailing?
They alone look embellished in the Lard's Court, who serve their True Guru.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The pied-cuckoo chirps in the ambrosial hour of morning and then is his prayer heard in God's Court.
The Lord issues an order to the cloud to kindly pour forth.
I am a sacrifice unto them, who keep the True Lord clasped to their heart.
Everyone blossoms, O Nanak, by reflecting over the Lord's Name and the Guru's word.
3rd Guru.
O sparrow hawk, thy thirst is quenched not, even though you wail a hundred times.
By God's Grace, the True Guru is attained to and by His grace, the Lord's love wells up.
Nanak, if the Lord abides in man's mind, then the sins flee from within him.
Pauri.
Some are Jains, who wander in wilderness, They are wasted away by the Primal Being
In their mouth is not the Lord's Name and they bathe not at the place of pilgrimage.
They pluck their head-hair with their hands and shave not their heads.
They remain filthy day and night, and love not the Lord's Name.
They have no caste, nor honour and good deeds. Their life they waste away in vain.
Their minds are spoiled and impure and they eat others leavings.
Without the Lord's Name, no one is ever blessed with good conduct.
By the Guru's grace, the mortal merges in the True Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The bride becomes happy in the month of Swan by reflecting on the Guru's word.
Nanak, through her infinite love for the Guru, she become a happy bride for eye.
3rd Guru.
In the month of Sawan, the meritless bride, who has attachment for another's love, burns in fire.
Nanak, she realises not the worth of her spouse, so pernicious are all her decorations.
Pauri.
The True, Unseeable and Inscrutable Lord is pleased not through obstinacy.
Some there are, who sing tunes and sub-tunes, but the Lord is fascinated not with rhythms.
Some dance about and about and beat time, but perform not the Lord's love-worship.
Some fools eat not corn, What is to be done with them?
Man's desire has greatly increased and it is quenched not in any wise.
Some individuals are tied to rituals and hassle themselves to death.
In this world, the profit lies in-drinking the Name-Nectar.
The Guru-wards gather, the love worship of their Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
The pious persons, who sing God's praise in the Malar measure; their soul and body become cool.
Through the Guru's word, they realise, the One Lord, that one True Lord.
Obeying, the True Lord, their mind and body become true. True is the repute of those true persons.
Within them is the true devotion and they are spontaneously blessed with honour.
In the Darkage there is pitch darkness and the egocentric finds no way out.
Very fortunate are they, O Nanak, unto whom the Lord becomes manifest by the Guru's grace.
3rd Guru.
The cloud rains mercifully and joy wells up in men's mind.
I am ever a sacrifice unto Him, by whose order the cloud bursts forth.
Through the Guru, Contemplate thou the Name and sing the praise of the True Lord.
Nanak, they who are imbued with the Name, they are the pure persons and easily merge in the True one.
Pauri.
Serving the Perfect True Guru, I have attained unto my perfect Lord.
Contemplating the Lord, through perfect destiny I have enshrined the Perfect Name in my mind.
Through perfect gnosis and meditation, I have washed off my filth.
Deeming God to the Pilgrim station's tank, I have bathed my mind therein.
He who dies through the Lord's Name and stills his mind; O blessed is the mother who bore him.
He is adjudged true in the True court and true is advent in this world,
When the Lord's pleasure is upon him then none can question regarding his account.
By virtue of good destiny, O Nanak, by praising the True-Lord, he has obtained Him.
Slok 1st Guru.
They, who give their disciples hats, are fools and they who receive them are, very shameless.
A mouse can be contained not in its hole, if he ties a winnowing basket to his waist.
They, who give blessing shall die and they to whom they are given, shall also depart.
Nanak, it is not known, where they go and merge by the Lord's will for me.
The harvest of winter is the One name and the harvest of summer is the True Name.
Reaching my Lord's court I have got writ the pardon-deed in my favour.
Myriads are the courts of the world and myriads come and go there.
Many are the mumpers who ask for alms and good many continue begging till their death.
1st Guru.
An elephant eats a hundred monds of clarified butter and molasses and swallows five hundred monds of corn.
He belches, blows and scatters dust and regrets when the breath leaves the body.
The blind and foolish world is dying of self-conceit.
When it merges in the Lord, then it becomes pleasing to Him.
Half a gram is the feed of the sparrow and ascending the sky, it chirps.
She, the good sparrow, that utters God's Name, is pleasing to the Lord.
The powerful tiger kills hundreds of deer and afterwards many other eat his leavings.
Becoming very strong, he is contained not in his den, but when he dies, he regrets.
Whom does the blind beast want to impress with his roar?
He is not at all pleasing to his Lord.
The milk-weed cricket loves the milk-weed and perching on its bough eats it.
If it so pleases the Lord, that cricket becomes sublime by uttering the Lord's Name.
Nanak, this world-play is but for four days. By indulging in revelments, pain wells up.
Men of mere words, there are many, but none can renounce the world.
The fly dies for sweet.
Mammon draws not near them, whom Thou, O Lord, protect, they alone ferry across the dreadful world-ocean.
Pauri.
O Inaccessible, Incomprehensible, Invisible and Infinite True Lord, Thou are the Master of all.
Thou are the beneficent Lord and all others are Thine beggars. Thou alone are the Giver.
They who serve Thee, attain to peace, by reflecting on the Guru's instruction,
Some love worldly valuables for such is Thy will, O Lord.
It is through the Guru's instruction. that one praises the Lord with hearty love and affection.
Without love, Lord's worship can be performed not and without the True Guru, love can not be embraced.
I, a minstrel of Thine, make a supplication, "Thou are the Lord of all and every one serves Thee".
My Master, bless Thou me with this gift, that I may feel Content by making Thy True Name my support in life.
Slok 1st Guru.
The time diminishes by night and so does the time diminish by day.
The body wears off and becomes worthless like straw.
All mortals are involvements and entanglements.
The straying man has renounced the way of the Lord's service.
Bothered and worried, the blind man is involved in strife.
Do they, who weep after the dead mortal, bring him back?
Without understanding, one can realise not aught
The weepers, who weep for the dead themselves die as well.
O Nanak, such is the Lord's will,
that who contemplate not their Lord are like dead.
1st Guru,
With death worldly love perishes affection ends and enmity and strife die as well.
The dye departs and beauty vanishes of the dead-body and it rolls in calamity.
Whence come he and where has he gone to? Whether he was ever in being or whether he ever was not.
The egocentric did vain things indulged in merry-making and revelries.
Nanak, without the True Name, man's honour is torn from head to feet.
Pauri.
Ever peace-bestower is the Lord's nectar-Name and it becomes one's helper in the end.
Without the Guru, the world is gone mad and knows not the worth of the Lord's Name,
They, who serve the True Guru, are approved and their light merges in the Luminous Lord.
The slave, in whose mind that Lord enshrines obedience to His will, is like Him.
Say, who has ever obtained peace, by walking according to his own will? The blind man does blind deeds.
The mortal is sated not ever with sins, The hunger of the foolish man departs not.
Attached to dually every one is wasted away, Without the True Guru understanding is attained not,
He alone, who serves the True Guru and on whom is the grace of the Lord of will, attains to peace.
Slok 1st Guru.
If man possesses the Name's wealth, O Nanak; he earns both modesty and righteousness.
That wealth is called not man's friends, because of which he suffers strokes on his head.
They who possess the worldly riches; they are said to be paupers.
They within whom Thou abide, O Lord; those persons are the ocean of virtues.
1st Guru.
The worldly valuables are gathered through pain and when they depart, they leave one in pain,
Nanak, without the True Name, no one's hunger ever departs.
Beauty satiates not one's hunger. When man sees beauty, then hungers he all the more.
As many as are the joys of the body, So many are the pains, which cling to it.
1st Guru.
Through dark deeds man's mind becomes blind and the blind makes the body blind.
What can plastering with mud do, when even the dam of stones gives way?
The embankment has burst forth, There is no boat, nor a raft and the river is unfathomable.
Nanak, without the Lord's True Name, many multitudes of men have been drowned.
1st Guru.
Man may have lacs of monds of gold, lacs of monds of silver and be the king over the heads of lacs of kings.
He may be the monarch of lacs of bands and spears and lacs of horses.
Where the unfathomable ocean of fire and water is to be crossed,
whose shore is seen not and where uproar of loud lamentation is heard.
There it shall be known, whether there is or is not, any king or emperor.
Pauri.
Some have chains on their necks and are led off to God's prison.
Recognising the Truest of the True, they are freed from the bonds.
He alone, who is blessed with favourable destiny knows the True Lord.
By God, will man's fate is decided, Going there he comes to know of this.
Realise thou the Lord's Name which shall ferry thee across the terrible world-ocean.
The thieves, adulterers and gamblers are pressed like an mill of mustard.
The slanderers and backbiters are loaded with hand-cuffs.
By the Guru's grace, man merges in the True Lord and he is renowned in the Lord's Court.
Slok 2nd Guru.
A pauper is styled a king and the blockhead is termed a scholar.
The blind-man is styled as a seer. So do people talk.
This mischievous one is termed a leader and the liar sits as a perfect man.
Nanak, thorough the Guru alone it is known, that this is the (way) or (justice) of the Dark age,
1st Guru.
The deer, the hawks and the officials; they are called learned and clever,
When the trap is laid, they trap their own class, but hereafter find no refuge.
He alone is learned, he alone scholarly and wise, who practises the Lord's Name.
Firstly the tree develops its root in the ground, then alone it spread out its shade above.
The kings are tigers and the courtiers dogs,
they go and harass the sitting and awaken the sleeping ones.
The king's servants inflict wound with their nails.
The king's curs lick up the blood and bile of the poor subjects where,
In the Lord's Court, the men are to be assayed.
The noses of these untrustworthy ones shall be chopped off.
Pauri.
The Lord, of Himself, creates the world and of Himself takes care of it.
Without God's fear, doubt is dispelled not and one love for the Lord's Name is imbibed not.
Through the True Guru, the Lord's fear wells up and one obtains the door of salvation.
Through the Lord's fear, gnosis is attained and man's light merges in the Infinite Luminous Lord.
Through God's fear, man crosses the dreadful world-ocean, reflecting on the Guru instruction.
Through His fear, the mortal attains unto the Fearless Lord, whose end and limit can be known not.
The egocentrics know not the worth of the Lord's fear and they wail, burning in desire.
Nanak, through the Lord's Name and by enshrining the Guru's instruction, within my mind, I have obtained peace.
Slok 1st Guru.
There is friendship between beauty and lust and alliance between hunger and dainty viands,
A greedy man obtaining wealth, becomes hand and glove with it and a sleepy man deems a tiny place as abed-stead.
The wrathful man barks and is ruined. The blind one is worried in vain pursuits.
To be silent, O Nanak, is good without the Name, all that the mouth utters is but dirt.
1st Guru.
Sovereignty, wealth, beauty, high caste and youth are the five robbers.
These robbers have robbed the world and they have not spared 'anyone's honour.
They, who repair to the Guru's feet are such robbers, that rob these.
Nanak many others, who are without good destiny are robbed by them.
Pauri.
The literate debtor is called to account in the yond.
Without the Name one is adjudged false and becomes miserable and distressed.
Difficult and obstructed are his paths and blocked the lanes.
The man of contentment Lord through the Name.
Deep, Profound, and Unfathomable is the Lord, His depth can be fathomed not.
Without the Guru no one is released and bears blows on one's mouth and face.
Uttering the Lord's Name, the mortal goes to his Home with honour.
Know, that by His will, the Lord blesses the mortals with vital breath sustenance.
Slok 1st Guru.
The living beings are made up of air, water and fire. Several pleasures and several pains cling to them.
In this world, under-world and the sky, some there are, who remain as ministers in the Lord's Court,
Some there are, who have long lives and some die soon and become miserable.
Some give in charity, expend themselves and still the wealth exhausts not and some ever walk as paupers.
In His Will, the Lord creates, in His will, He destroys lacs of mortals in a moment.
The Lord has snaffled all with snaffle and when He forgives man, He breaks his snaffle.
The Lord is without colour and features. He is beyond account and is Unseeable,
The Lord is known to be the Truest of the true. How can one describe and utter Him?
All the deeds, which are done and described, are through the Lord alone, O Nanak, He of Himself is ineffable.
Whosoever listens to the Indescribable Lord's discourse,
he is blessed with riches, wisdom, perfection, gnosis and eternal peace.
1st Guru.
If man bears the unbearable, then comes he to control his nine apertures.
Whosoever adores the Lord with every breath; stable becomes his body wall.
Whence has the mortal come and whereto shall be go?
By remaining dead in life, he becomes acceptable.
Whosoever understands the Lord's will; he comes to realise the quintessence.
All this he comes to realise by the Guru's grace.
Know thou this, O Nanak, that whosoever says "I am", he is bound down.
He who is without ego and self-conceit, is cast not into species.
Pauri.
Read thou the praise of the Lord's Name, False is every other intellect.
Vain is the life, if one deals not in the True Name
None knows the Lord's end and limit. No one has ever known it.
All the men are enveloped by the darkness of self-conceit, They love not the true Name.
They, who depart, forgetting the Name, are roasted in the frying pan,
The oil of duality, poured in their mind, ever burns them.
He comes and departs after the life's play, In between he wanders unrestrained.
Nanak, imbued with the True Name, one merges in the True Lord.
Salok 1st Guru.
Man is first conceived in flesh and then abodes he in flesh.
When he quickens, he obtains the mouth of flesh and his bones, skin and body are made of flesh.
When he is taken out of the womb of flesh, he has mouthful of milk from the teats of flesh.
His mouth is of flesh, his tongue is of flesh and his breath is in flesh.
When he grows up, he is married and brings the wife of flesh into his home.
Flesh is produced from flesh and all the relatives of man are made of flesh.
When man meets with the True Guru, he knows the Lord's will and then alone is he reformed.
By one's own releasing, one is released not Through mere words, O Nanak, man is ruined.
1st Guru.
The fools quarrel over flesh, flesh and know not God's gnosis and meditation.
They know not what is called flesh and what the green, or in what does sin consist.
It was the habit of the gods to kill rhinoceros and perform sacred feasts after burnt offerings.
They, who abandon meat and hold their nose when sitting near it, devour men at night.
They practice hypocrisy and make a show of it to men but they know not God's gnosis and meditation.
Nanak what can be said to the blind man? He can reply not and nor understands he what is said to him.
He alone is blind, who does blind deeds. He has no mental eyes.
They are produced from the blood of their mother and father, yet they eat not fish and flesh.
When man and woman meet at night, there they co-habit with flesh.
From flesh we are conceived, from flesh we are born and we are the vessels of flesh.
O Pandit, Thou know not divine knowledge and Lord's meditation and still thou call thyself wise.
O Lord, thou deem the flesh of without bad and the flesh of thy home good.
All creatures have sprung from flesh and the soul has taken its abode in flesh.
They, whose teacher is blind, eat what is uneatable and abandon and reject what is eatable.
In flesh we are conceived, from flesh we are born and we are the vessel of flesh.
O Brahman, thou know not Divine knowledge and the Lord's mediation and yet thou call thyself clever.
Flesh is allowed in the Puranas, flesh is allowed in the Muslim religious books and flesh has been used in the four ages.
Flesh adorns sacred feasts and marriage functions, with them flesh is associated.
Women, men, kings and emperors spring from flesh.
If thou see them going to hell, then thou should not accept their gifts in charity,
See ye this injustice, that the giver goes to hell and the receiver to heaven.
O Pandit, thou understand not thyself, but thou instruct people. Thou are indeed very wise.
O Brahman thou know not, whence flesh has sprung.
From water are produced corn, sugarcane and cotton and from water the three worlds are accounted to have sprung.
Says the water, "I am good in many ways". Many are the modifications of water.
Abandoning all these relishes, one becomes a real solitarian Says Nanak deliberately.
Pauri.
What can I say with one tongue? Thy limit no one has found, O Lord.
They, who reflect on the True Name, merge in Thee.
Some there are, who wander about wearing ochre robes, but without the True Guru no one ever attains unto the Lord.
Men have grown weary of wandering in the country and abroad, but Thou, O Lord, has hid.
Guru's word is the jewel, which of itself, shows the Lord by shedding Divine Light.
Recognizing one's ownself, through the Guru's instruction, one merges in the True Lord.
The impostor who creates a false show, continues coming and going.
They to whose mind the True Lord is pleasing, praise the one ever stable True Lord.
Slok 1st Guru.
Nanak, the tree of worldly deeds bears the ambrosial fruits and the poisonous fruits and the poisonous fruits.
The Creator alone does all deeds, He whom the Lord pampers certain fruit, that very fruit be eats.
2nd Guru.
Nanak, burn thou in the fire the glories of the world.*
These (accursed) or (burnt) ones have made man forget the Name. Not even one of them goes with him.
Pauri.
Adjudging all according to their deeds, the Lord drives them in His will.
O Lord, perfect justice is in Thine hand. Thou alone are pleasing to my mind.
Binding man down, death shall drive him on and no one can rescue him.
Mounting on the mortal's shoulders, the tyrant old-age dances there.
Embark thou on the ship and fleet of the True Guru and the True Lord shall save thee.
The fire of desire, whish burns like an oven, consumes man night and day.
The trapped mortal pecks corn. It is through the Lord's will alone, that he can be released.
Whatever the Creator does, that alone comes to pass and falsehood ultimately fails.
Slok 1st Guru.
He, who shows the Lord's abode within the man's mind home; He alone is the Omnipotent and Omniscient True Guru.
The Lord is manifest in the tenth gate, where the celestial strain resounds to the accompaniment of the sound of the five musical instruments.
Struck with wonder, one sees all the islands, universes, underworlds, continents and spheres there.
There one hears the resounding of strings of the musical instruments and sees the True Throne of the sovereign Lord.
Hear thou the music of the home of mental peace and be attuned to the celestial stillness.
Reflecting on the ineffable discourse of God, man's desire is dissolved in the very mind,
Turning away from the world, the heart lotus is filled with Nectar and this mind, then goes not anywhere.
Merging in the Primal Lord, man forgets not the mental meditation.
By the Guru's grace all the organs are blessed with five virtues and man abides in his own home.
Nanak is the slave of him, who by searching the Lord's Name obtains this Home of his.
1st Guru.
The great effulgence of the world is but passing show.
My perverted intellect thinks not of grave.
I am but a low, humble petitioner and thou, O Lord, are a big River.
Bless me Thou with one thing Thy Name. Another poisonous thing pleases me not.
By thine skill, Thou, O Lord, has filled this fragile body bowl with the life water.
Through Thy omnipotence, I have become powerful.
Nanak is the inebriated dog of the Lord's court and this inebriation of his ever increases day by day.
This world is but fire and cool is the Lord's Name.
New Pauri. 5th Guru.
The Wondrous Lord is pervading all over and the Wondrous Lord describe I.
By the Guru's grace, I have realised the Transcendent Lord, the Supreme Master.
Through the manifestation of God, all the sins are washed off.
Through the society of saints one is emancipated and becomes free.
Remembering and contemplating my Beneficent Lord, enjoy I all the comforts.
I have become renowned throughout the whole world and the canopy of the Lord's grace is stretched over me.
I am ever a sacrifice unto the Lord, who has forgiven and united me with Himself.
Nanak in His will the Lord has blended me with Himself.
Slok 1st Guru.
Blest is the paper, blest the pen, blest the inkpot and blest the ink.
O Nanak, blest is the writer, who writes the True Name.
1st Guru.
Thou, of Thyself are the tablet, O Lord, of Thyself the pen and Thou are also the writing thereon.
Speak thou of the one Lord, O Nanak, Why should there be a second?
Pauri.
Thou, of thyself, are pervading all over, O Lord and Thou Thyself has made the make.
Without Thee, There is not another second. Thou are contained amongst all.
Thou alone know Thy state and extent and Thou alone can appraise Thy worth.
Thou are Unperceivable Unapprehensible and Unapproachable and are discerned through the Guru's instruction.
Within one is ignorance, pain and doubt. It is through the Guru-given gnosis that one is rid of these.
He, to whom Thou show mercy; he alone contemplates Thy Name and him Thou, O Lord, unite with Thyself.
O my Creator-Lord, Thou are Unfathomable and are pervading all places.
To whatsoever Thou yoke a man, O True Lord, to that he is Yoked, Nanak sings Thine praises.
Rag Malar. Hymns of reverend. Saint Nam Dev.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Serve thou thy Lord, thy king, who is Unlineal and Immaculate.
Bless Thou me with the gift of Thy meditation for which the saintly persons beg Thee, O Lord. Pause.
Such is the Lord in whose home is seen the pavilion made of all the directions, who has ornamental celestial mansion and who is fully filling the seven worlds alike.
In whose home abides the virgin goddess of wealth. The moon and the sun are His two lamps, the poor death, which exhibits wondrous plays and which levies tax on all, is His police-official.
Such is that venerable Man lion Emperor.
In whose mansion is the four-faced Brahma, the fashioning potter, Who has created the whole world.
In whose home is the crazy Shiva, the world-teacher, who utters the true Divine knowledge.
At whose gate evil and good are mace-bearers and Chitar and Gupat, the scribes.
The Righteous judge, the Lord of deluge, is His door-man.
Such a sovereign is that Reverend cherisher of the world.
Within whose Home are the heavenly heralds, celestial singers, the sages, and the poor minstrels, who sing sweetly.
All the Shastras are His actors; stupendous is His arena. The sovereigns utter beauteous songs in his praise.
Such is the Lord, wind is whose waving fly-brush,
whose handmaiden is mammon, who has vanquished the world.
(The mortal world) or (half an egg) is whose fire place.
Such is that Sovereign the Lord of the three worlds.
In whose home is the bed-stead of the tortoise and the couch-cord of the thousand headed serpent.
Whose flower-girl is the eighteen loads of vegetation and water-carriers are the ninety-six millions of clouds ranges.
The perspiration of whose nails is the Ganges.
The seven ocean are whose pitcher stands.
So many creatures are whose vessels.
Such is He, the Monarch, the Master of the Three worlds.
In whose Home are Arjan, Dhru, Prahlad, Ambrik, Narad, Neja, Adepts, Budhas, Heavenly-heralds and ninety two, celestial singers, as aids-de-camps, who perform wondrous plays.
In whose mansion, there are creatures of so many kinds.
Within all the beings is diffused my Lord.
Supplicates Namdev, seek thou, O man,
the protection of Him, whose manifestation are all his saints.
Malar.
Forget Thou me not, forget Thou me not,
Forget Thou me not, O my All-pervading God. Pause.
The temple-priests have this doubt, that every one if furious at me.
Calling me 'a menial, 'a menial ', they beat me and turned me out. What should I do now O my Beloved Father?
If Thou shalt emancipate me after death, no one shall be aware of this emancipation.
These Brahman call me low-born, this way Thy honour, O Lord, shall be stigmatized.
Thou are called merciful and compassionate and exceedingly unrivalled is Thy arm.
The Lord turned around the front of the temple towards Name and its back towards the Brahmans.
Malar Hymns of Sire Saint Ravidass.
There is but One God, Through the Guru's grace He is obtained.
O people of the town, I am obviously a cobbler by caste.
Within my mind, I contemplate the Pervading God and meditate on virtues of the world-Lord. Pause.
O holy men drink not wine, even though it be made with the Ganga's water.
The impure wine, nay rather some other dirty water as well, meeting with the Ganges remains not different from it.
The palmyra palm tree is considered as impure and so are deemed its leaves to be.
But if the Lord's praise be written on it, men worship it and bow before it.
My avocation is to dress and cut leather and to daily cart away the dead animals to the outskirts of Banaras.
Now, the prominent Brahmans, prostrate themselves before him, since slave Ravidass has sought the refuge of Thy Name, O Lord.
Malar.
The persons, who meditate on the lotus feet of God, the Lord of Lakshmi; equal to them there is not another.
Though diffused in many ways, the Lord is but one, Bring, bring into thy mind, O man that all-pervading Lord. Pause.
He, in whose house the praise of the Illustrious Lord is written and nothing else is seen; by caste, he is an untouchable calico-printer.
The greatness of the Name is writ in Vyas, it is observed in Sanak, the son of Brahma and it is famous in the seven great continents.
He, in whose family, men used to kill cows at the Id and Bakrid and worshipped Shaikhs, martyrs and spiritual perceptions.
Whose father used to do such things; Kabir his son, so succeeded that he became celebrated in the three worlds.
All the tanners of whose family still continue to go round about Banaras removing dead cattle; the ritualistic.
Brahmans make prostration before their son, Ravidass, the slave of the Lord's slaves. Malar.
Malar.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Through what devotional service, can I meet with my Beloved, the Lord of vital breath?
Associating with the saints, I have obtained the supreme status. Pause.
Dirty is my vesture. How long shall I wash it.
How long shall I remain slumbering in this sleep, which has come upon me?
With whatsoever I was attached, all that has perished.
The shop of spurious trade has closed.
Says Ravidass, when the account is taken.
Whatsoever the mortal has done; all that he beholds.
Rag Kanra Chaupadas 4th Guru.
There is but One God. True His is Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His from. He is without fear, sans enmity, beyond birth and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Meeting with the pious persons, my mind has flowered.
A sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice am I unto saints, meeting with whose society I am ferried across. Pause.
O my God, the Lord Master, bless me with Thy mercy so that I may fall at the feet of the saints.
Blessed, blessed is the saint, who realizes his God Lord, Meeting with the saint even the sinners are emancipated.
The mind roams and rambles in many, many directions. It is only by meeting with the saints, that it is over-powered.
As by spreading the thread's net in the water, the fisherman catches, overpowers and carries away the fish, so is the mind controlled through the saints.
Good and sublime are the saints, the Lord's saints. Meeting with the holymen, the filth of sins is washed off.
And as the clothes are rendered clean with soap, so are washed off all the sins of self-conceit.
By virtue of the Lord's preordained writ on my brow and forehead, I have enshrined the great True Guru's feet within my mind.
Salve Nanak has obtained his Lord, the Destroyer of all poverty and pain and through His Name, he is emancipated.
Kanra 4th Guru.
My mind is the dust of the saints feet.
As I heard the Lord God's gospel, associating with the saints' congregation, my uncultured mind was drenched with the colour of Lord's love. Pause.
I was ignorant and thoughtless and knew not the Lord's state and measure. The Guru has make me wise and a man of wisdom.
The Lord, merciful to the meek, has owned me and my mind now utters the Lord God's Name.
If I meet with the Lord's saints, the beloveds of my very mind, severing my heart, I would offer it to them;
Meeting with the God's saints, I have met with my God and I, a sinner, am sanctified.
Sublime are said to be Lord's slave in this world, meeting with whom even the stones are irrigated.
The glory of the Lord's saint I can describe not, for the Lord God, of Himself, has make them sublime.
O God, the Lord Master, Thou alone are the great Merchant-Prince. Bless Thou me, Thine peddler, with the capital of Thy Name.
O Lord, shower Thou Thy benediction on slave Nanak, that he may load the merchandise of God's Name.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O my soul, utter thou the Lord's Name, that thou may be illumined.
Meeting with the Lord's saint, whosoever is attuned to God, he remains detached in his very home. Pause.
The merciful Master has shown His mercy unto me and within my mind I have meditated upon God, the Man Lion.
Night and day, I am ever in bliss and my heart is in bloom. I am now effortful and hope to meet my Lord.
Ever am I now in love with my beloved Lord Master and cherish Him with every breath and every morsel of food that I take.
My sins have been burnt in an instant and the bounds of mammon are also loosened for me.
What a worm am I and what deed can I do? Me, a fool and an idiot, that Lord has saved.
I am iniquitous and stone heavy Meeting with the society of saints, I have crossed the dreadful ocean.
All the creation, that the Lord has created is higher than me, I m the low one, am engrossed in sins.
The Guru's association has erased my demerits and the Lord has united slave Nanak with Himself.
Kanra 4th Guru.
Through the Guru's word, O my soul, utter thou, thy Lord's Name.
Lord God, the Master of the universe, has shown mercy unto me and my evil thought, duality and longing for something else have all been dispelled. Pause.
Diverse are the forms and colours of God, Though hid from the eye, the Lord is pervading all the hearts.
Meeting with the God's saint, God becomes manifest and the doors of vice are broken.
Supremely great is the glory of the saintly person, who lovingly enshrine God, the Lord of bliss, within their mind.
Meeting with the Lord's saints, one meets with the Lord, just as when one sees the calves, one sees the cow as well.
The Lord God ever abides within the minds of His saints. Those sublime saints themselves know God and make others know Him as well.
Within their mind abides the Lord's fragrance and they are rid of the odour of the obnoxious sins.
Thine saints, Thou embellish, O Lord God and Thyself own and save them.
The Lord God alone is the friend, brother, mother father, relation and kinsman of slave Nanak.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O my soul, heartily utter thou the Name of thy God, the Lord Master.
The treasure of the Lord's Name is locked in the fortress of mammon and through the Guru's instruction, I have conquered the fortress. Pause.
In false illusion and superstition, the mortal wanders in various directions and he is lured by the attachment and affection of his children and wife.
Like the passing shade of a tree, thy body wall shall fall down in a moment.
The sublime saints are my vital-breath and beloveds, meeting with whom faith comes into my mind.
My mind is happy with the all pervading Lord. With bliss and love, ever meditate I, On my everstable Lord.
Blessed are the pious persons, the saint of God, meeting with whom, man's mind is imbued with the Lord's love.
God's love fades not, nor does it wear off ever. Through the Lord's love, one goes and meets with one's Lord God.
I, the sinner, had committed myriads of sins. Hewing them, the Guru has completely cut them off.
The Guru has blessed me with the superb medicine of the Lord God's Name and I, the sinner slave Nanak, am sanctified.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O my soul, contemplate thou the Name of God, the Lord of the world.
I was caught in the whirlpool of poisonous sins. Lending his hand, the True Guru has pulled me out of it. Pause.
O fear-free, immaculate Lord, the man-lion, save Thou me, the sinner and the stone.
I am lured by the sins of lust, wrath and avarice, but in Thine association, O Lord, I am ferried across like the iron in the wooden boat.
O great God, Thou are supremely Unfathomable and Unknowable. Searching Thee, I am tired but have found not Thy limit.
Thou, O Lord are yonder of the yond and the sublimest of the sublime. Thou Thyself know Thyself, O Lord of the world.
I have pondered over the Name of the invisible and incomprehensible Lord and meeting with the saints and the saints' congregation, have found His path.
Meeting with the society of saints, I hear the Lord God's gospel, contemplate the God's Name and utter His unutterable discourse.
My supreme Lord is the Master of the universe and the Lord of the world. O God, the King of creation, save Thou me, by Thine grace.
Serf Nanak, is the slave of the slave of Thine slaves, O Lord, show Thou mercy unto me and keep me in the association of Thy saints.
Kanra 4th Guru. Partal.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
O my soul, meditate thou on the Lord, the Cherisher of the world.
God is the pearl, the jewel and the emerald.
The Lord moulds the Guruwards in His mint.
Be Thou merciful unto me, O my God. Pause.
O Lord, Lord, Lord, my loved Lord, unknowable are Thine virtues, How can one poor tongue of mine narrate them?
O Sire Lord, Thy Ineffable gospel, Thou, Thou alone know; jubilant, jubilant, jubilant I have become by meditating on Thee.
The God Lord is the companion of my vital-breath, My God is my only friend. My soul, body and tongue are imbued with the Lord God's Name. The Lord's Name alone is my wealth and property.
Whosoever is so destined, she attains unto her spouse and by Guru's instruction, sings the praise of Lord God, Yea, her Lord God, O Slave Nanak I am devoted and a sacrifice unto her who, contemplating her Lord, has become jubilant, gay and happy.
Kanra 4th Guru.
Sing thou the praises of God, the Lord of the world.
Convert Thou one tongue of mine into twenty lakhs,
that with all of those, I may utter thy Name (Har Har), O my Lord God, worthy of meditation.
O my God, be Thou merciful unto me. Pause.
O my God, the Lord master, merciful yoke Thou me to Thy service. I contemplate my God, Yea, I contemplate my God and ever utter the Name of the Lord of the universe.
Thine slaves, O Lord, meditate on Thee. Sublime, indeed are they. A sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, am I unto them.
O Lord, Thou are the greatest of the great, the highest of the high and lofty. Whatever Thy will, that alone Thou does.
By the Guru's instruction, slave Nanak has partaken of the Name Nectar. Blessed, blessed, blessed, blessed and praiseworthy is the Guru.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O my soul, meditate thou on thy Lord Master,
who has no form and sign and is the greatest of the great.
Whosoever has great destiny writ on his forehead,
he dwells on his Lord, associating with the society of saints. Pause.
The house, the place, where God's praise is sung, that house is filled with the joy of the joys. So, utter thou the Lord Master's Name, O man.
Singing the praise of the Name of the beloved Lord God, under the instruction of the great Guru, the True Guru, one is blessed with peace. Therefore, O man, meditate thou on thy Lord God Master, yea, the Lord God Master and the All-pervading Lord God.
O my merciful God, Thou uphold the whole world and Thou, Yea, Thou and Thou alone, O Lord! Lord, Lord, are the Creator of all.
Slave Nanak, seeks Thy refuge, O God. Bless Thou him with the Guru's instruction, that he may reflect over the Lord Master's Name.
Kanra 4th Guru.
With utter eagerness, kiss I the feet of my True Guru.
Meeting with whom, the Lord's path becomes smooth.
I dwell upon the Lord with love and drink the Lord's elixir in big draughts.
The love of God is writ in my brows, destiny. Pause.
Some perform six kinds of rituals and deeds. The perfect person, seekers and yogis practise good many ostentations. Some remain in natural form and some wear tresses and matted hair.
The God Lord's union is attained not by wearing garbs. Through the saints' society and the great Guru's teaching, God is met with. The holymen open widely the door of deliverance.
Thou, O Lord, are the remotest of the remote and exceedingly Unfathomable. Thou are fully pervading the water and land. All alone, O unique One Lord Master has Thou created the creation.
Thou, O Lord, know all methods and Thyself understand everything. In each and every heart, slave Nanak's Lord is contained.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O my soul, meditate thou the Master of the world and the Lord of wealth.
Inaccessible and Inapprehensible is my Lord Master.
O my mind, attain thou unto thy God Lord through the Guru's instruction,
for thou has such a predestined writ on thy forehead. Pause.
Amassing the poisonous wealth, man thinks of many evils. He can obtain peace only by contemplating his saints society and the highly esteemed saintly True Guru.
Just as iron dross, touching the philosopher's stone is transmuted into gold, similarly, a sinful person, blessed with the Guru's instruction in the society of the saints, becomes blotless and is rendered immaculate.
As with a wooden boat, a lot of iron even is ferried across, so are the sinners ferried across by the saints, saints, congregation and the great grand and saintly True Guru.
Whosoever of the four castes, and four-Ashram's meets with the Great Guru Nanak, he not only saves himself but saves he all his generations as well.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O man, sing thou the praise of thy God, the Illustrious Lord.
Singing the Lord's praise, thine sins shall be washed off.
Through the Guru's teaching and instructions, hear thou, the Lord's praise with thine ears.
Thiswise, the Lord shall be merciful unto Thee. Pause.
Thine saints, O Lord meditate on thee, single mind and whole heart and contemplating the Name of Lord Master, the Treasure. of bliss those saints obtain peace.
Meeting with the saints, the pious persons and the great, God like True Guru, they sing Thine praise, O Lord.
They, within whose mind Thou abide, O Lord, they obtain the fruit of bliss. They cross the terrible world ocean and they alone are known to be the God's saints.
To the service of those saints, yoke me Thou, O God, Yea, engage me, Thou, O God. thou, and Thou, alone, O God, are the Illustrious Lord of slave Nanak.
Kanra 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the true Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Sing thou the praise of God, the Cherisher of the world and the Treasure of mercy.
The destroyer of sorrow and the giver of peace is the True Guru, meeting with whom, one is wholly fulfilled. Pause.
Contemplating the Lord's Name, man secures mind's mainstay.
Through the Lord's Name, millions of sinners are saved in an instant.
Whosoever heartily remembers his Guru,
He suffers not a bit of sorrow even in dream.
whomsoever protects his True Guru.
that man tastes God's elixir with his tongue.
Say Nanak, the Guru has taken pity on me,
and here and here-after, my face has become bright.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O my Lord, meditate I only on Thee.
Standing, sitting, sleeping and waking, with every breath of mine, contemplate I my God. Pause.
God's Name abides within the mind of him alone,
whom the Lord blesses with its gift.
Peace, abides in his mind alone,
who meets with his Lord, through the Guru's word.
He alone is versed in all arts and is wise,
whom the Guru blesses with the Name's spell.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto him,
who in this Darkage is blessed with the Lord's Name.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O my tongue, sing thou the praise of thy Lord.
O my soul, many a time, make thou obeisance unto the saints. Through their association, the sire Lord's feet shall be enshrined in thy mind. Pause.
By no other means thou can find the Lord's door.
When God becomes merciful then alone can thou contemplate the Lord's Name.
The body is purified not by performing a myriad rituals.
In the society of the saints alone this mind is awakened.
Desire is stilled not, by enjoying various worldly pleasures.
By uttering the Name, all the comforts are obtained.
Says Nanak, when the Transcendent Lord becomes merciful,
then alone one is rid of the worldly entanglements.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O my mind, pray to thy Lord for such boons;
for the service of the saints and the society of the pious persons; as it is through the meditation on the God's Name that thou shalt be blessed with supreme salvation. Pause.
Seek thou thy Lord's refuge and worship His feet.
Deem thou joy in whatever thy Reverend Lord does.
This priceless body of him becomes fruitful,
unto whom the True Guru showers his benediction.
The ignorance, doubt and pain of that person is destroyed,
within whose mind the Guru's feet are enshrined.
Whosoever, associating with the saints, contemplates his Lord with love;
says Nanak, He attains unto the perfect One.
Kanra 5th Guru.
The Lord's devotion becomes dear only His devotees.
Their body and mind are blended with the Lord and He, of Himself. unites them with Himself. Pause.
The singer sings the Lord's song,
but she alone is saved, who enshrines the Lord within her mind.
The man who lays the table, sees the food,
but satiated is he alone who partakes of the food.
The disguiser assumes various garbs,
but ultimately is seen as he really is.
To utter and shout are all involvements.
O slave Nanak, sublime is only the True way of life.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Hearing Thy praise, O God, Thy slave is greatly enthused. Pause.
Seeing the Lord's glory, my mind is illumined. Wherever I see there He the Lord is.
Thou, O Lord, are the Remotest of the remote, the Highest of all, Profound, Immovable and Unfathomable.
Like warp and woop, Thou are united with Thine devotees and for Thine slaves, Thou has removed the veil off thy face.
By the Guru's grace, Nanak sings the Lord's praises and remains merged in the trance of equipoise.
Kanra 5th Guru.
I have come to the saints, to save myself. Pause.
Seeing their vision I am rendered immaculate and they have implanted the Lord God's Name within me.
Partaking the cure all of the Lord's Name, I am rid of the diseases and my mind is sanctified.
My mind has become stable and abides in the abode of peace and now goes not anywhere else again.
By the saints grace, all the men are emancipated and then they do not get involved in mammon, O Nanak.
Kanra 5th Guru.
I have altogether forgotten to be jealous of others,
since the time, I have attained the society of saints. Pause.
No one now is my enemy, nor is anyone a stranger to me and I am the friend of all.
Whatever the Lord does, that I deem as good. this sublime wisdom I have obtained from the saints.
Amongst all, the One Lord is pervading; seeing and beholding Him, Nanak is greatly pleased.
Kanra 5th Guru.
My sire Master, Thou alone are my support.
Thou alone are my honour and glory. thy support and Thine refuge alone seek, O my Lord. Pause.
Thou are my hope and Thou my faith. I obtain and enshrine Thy Name in my mind.
My power flows from Thee and in Thine association am I embellished. Whatever Thou say, that alone I do, O my Lord.
Through Thine grace and mercy, am I blessed with bliss, O Lord, when thou are compassionate then do I cross the dreadful world ocean.
Placing his head on the feet of the saints, Nanak, has obtained the gift of fearlessness through the Lord's Name.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Repairing to the saints refuge, I have attuned my mind to the Lord's feet.
When the true Guru enshrined the spell of the Name within me, then did I see, as I had heard, that the world is but a thing of a dream, yea, only a dream. Pause.
Man is satiated not with power, youth and wealth and runs after them again and again.
Singing the Lord's praises, I have obtained peace, gathered tranquility and my desire is wholly stilled.
Without true understanding, the mortal is like the beast and he is engrossed in doubt, worldly love and wealth.
Associating with the saints society, death's noose is cut and one merges in his Lord, O Nanak.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Within thy mind, sing thou the praise of Lord's feet, O man.
Ever pondering, reflecting and meditating on God, the Embodiment of bliss and peace, thou shalt be comforted. Pause.
Thiswise all thy hopes shall be fulfilled and thou shall be rid of the agonise of myriads of births.
To merge in the saints society is far better than giving of alms, charity or doing various other good deeds.
Thiswise man's suffering and sorrow are ended, O Nanak and death devours him not again.
Kanra 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace is He attained.
Let us utter the Lord's gnosis in the saints congregation.
Meditating on the Omnipresent and supremely Luminous Transcendent Lord, one is blessed with glory. Pause.
Contemplating the Lord in the society of the saints, man's comings and going are ended and his suffering are effaced, as well.
Imbued with the love of the Transcendent Lord, the sinners are sanctified in an instant.
Whosoever utters and heart the Lord's praise; his evil nature is wiped off,
and all his wishes are fulfilled and hopes flower into fruition, O Nanak.
Kanra 5th Guru.
In the saints society, one is blessed with the treasure of the Lord's Name.
The Lord's Name is the mortals companion and helper and is helpful for his soul. Pause.
Whosoever bathes ever in the dust of the saints' feet,
he washes off the sins of myriads of births.
Sublime is the holy word of the saintly persons,
remembering and contemplating which, the mortals are ferried across, O Nanak.
Kanra 5th Guru.
O saints, sing ye the Lord God's praises.
Our mind, body wealth and vital breath all belong to the Lord, contemplating whom, we are rid of our distress. Pause.
Why are thou entangled in this and that, O man? Attune thou, thy mind to the One Lord.
Supremely immaculate is the saints seat. Meeting with them, meditate thou on the Lord of the universe.
Abandoning everything, Nanak has sought Thy protection, O Lord. Merge Thou him in Thyself.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Seeing, and beholding God, my Friend, remain I in bloom. My Lord ever remains all alone and detached. Pause.
He is the embodiment of bliss, peace and poise, Like Him there is not another.
Contemplating the Lord God even but once, millions of sins are erased.
Uttering the Lord's praises, distresses are dispelled and the mind is rendered clam.
Imbued with the love of thy Lord, O Nanak, in-drink thou the sweet Name-Nectar with thy tongue.
Kanra 5th Guru.
O Friends and saints, come ye into my hope. Pause.
Sing thou the God's praises with joy and pleasure and your sins shall be erased and thrown away.
Lay the saints feet on your forehead and your dark home shall be illumined.
By the saints grace, lotus of the heart blooms and beholding the world-Lord. near, meditate ye on Him.
Nanak is a sacrifice, yea, a sacrifice unto the moment, when he meets with the saints by the Lord's grace.
Kanra 5th Guru.
O Lord, I seek the refuge of Thine feet.
Save Thou me from worldly love, ego, guile and doubt and cut the fetters off my feet. Pause.
My Master, I am being drowned in the world-ocean.
I am saved on contemplating my God, the mine of Name-treasure.
Indeed, Comfort-giving is Thy Name, O Lord.
All-pervading is my Lord master.
O Emancipator, Thou are the destroyer of the distress of the meek.
God is the Treasure of mercy and the deliverer of the sinners.
I have wandered through millions of births and suffered pain.
The Guru has implanted the Name within me and I am now in utter bliss, O Nanak.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Blessed is the love which is attuned to the Lord's feet.
Through it, the very fortunate are blessed with the merit of countless meditations and austerities and meet with the Perfect Lord. Pause.
O Lord, I am a helper slave and serf of Thine. All other supports, I have given up.
Contemplating my Lord, every trace of my doubt is effaced and receiving the salv of wisdom my eyes have awakened from sleep.
Thou, O Unfathomable, exceedingly great and Perfect Lord, are an ocean of mercy and mind of jewels.
Nanak, the beggar begs for the Lord God's Name and rests his forehead on the feet of his Lord.
Kanra 5th Guru.
I am filthy stone-hearted, deceitful and lustful.
As Thou deem fit, so save Thou, me, O my Lord. Pause.
Thou are All-powerful, worthy of giving refuge and exercising Thy might, Thou save the mortals.
Emancipation is attained by means of worship, penance, religious vows, physical purity and self-discipline and fasting.
Casting Thy eye of grace, O Lord, pull Thou out, Nanak, from the awfully dark ditch.
Kanra 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
He who makes obeisance unto the Primal Being, the Lord of men,
I am a sacrifice, sacrifice unto such a Guru, who himself is emancipated and emancipates me as well. Pause.
O Lord, which of Thine countless and numerous merits should I praise, when there is no limit and end to them.
Lacs upon lacs and countless millions are the Lords virtues, but rare indeed is any such person who reflects on them.
Beholding My Beloved, I am wonder struck, wonder struck, wonder struck and am imbued deep red.
Says Nanak, the saints enjoy the God's elixir, as the dumb smiles tasting the sweets.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Save their Lord, the saints know not another.
They see their Lord contained amongst all, the high and low and revering Him in their mind, they utter His Name with their mouth. Pause.
God, the Ocean of peace, the Destroyer of dread and my vital-breath, is filling all hearts.
When the Guru whispered God's Name into my ears, my mind was illumined and I was delivered of my doubt.
Potent to do, Lord, the Embodiment of mercy, the Inner-Knower and All wisdom is doing everything.
Throughout the eight watches, Nanak sings Thy praise, O God and begs from Thee the gift of Thy Name alone.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Several and many are there, who talk and speak about God.
But rare is such a slave and serf of the Lord, who understands the Reality of the union with Him. Pause.
He has no pain, but all-comforts and with his eyes, he sees only the One Lord.
For him no one is evil, but one is good. There is no defeat for him, but victory all though.
He is never is sorrow, but ever in bliss and forsaking this bliss, he takes not aught.
Says Nanak, God's slave is him self the Lord God, hence he does not need to come, nor needs he to go.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Let not my heart forget my Lord.
My body and mind are blended with Him, although mammon is enticing me away O my mother. Pause.
To whomsoever I talk of my pan, all those are caught and held up by mammon.
In various forms, mammon has cast a net, whose knots are loosened not.
Rambling and roaming about, slave, Nanak, has come and sought the refuge of the saints.
I am now delivered of my ignorance. doubt and worldly love and the Lord has hugged me to his bosom.
Kanra 5th Guru.
There is joy, bliss and happiness in my home.
I sing the praise of the Name, reflect on the Name and the Name is the support of my vital-breath. Pause.
God's Name is my wisdom, God's Name is my ablution and the God's Name alone resolves mine affairs.
The Lord's Name my glory, the Lord's name my greatness and it is the Lord's Name that ferries me across the arduous and dreadful world ocean.
The immeasurable wealth and the invaluable gem of the God's name, I have obtained through the Guru's feet.
Says Nanak, the Lord has became merciful unto me and seeing His vision, my mind is inebriated.
Kanra 5th Guru.
My friend and Intimate Lord is near, very near.
Being ever with all, He seems and heart everything. For a brief span of life, why thou commit evil O man? Pause.
Save the Lord's name, with whatsoever thou are attached, that is nothing and from that naught belongs to Thee.
In the yond, everything obviously comes to view but here, the mortal is beguiled by the darkness of doubt.
Man is entangled with his sons, wife and wealth and he has forgotten the Bounteous and Beneficent Lord.
Says Nanak I have but one faith, that my Guru is the snapper of my bounds.
Kanra 5th Guru.
O Lord, Thine saints have over whelmed the hosts of sins and evils.
O Lord, they lean and rely on Thee and seek they, Thy refuge. Pause.
Seeing Thy vision, O Lord, they efface the great load of the sins of their many births.
They are illumined, enlightened and gladdened and merge in the trance of equipoise.
Who says Thou cannot do a thing. Thou, O Lord, are infinitely powerful.
O God, the Treasure of mercy, when I earn the profit, of Thy Name, I enjoy thy love, Thy beauty and Thy bliss. Says Nanak.
Kanra 5th Guru.
The drowning mortal is comforted by contemplating Thee. O God.
He is rid of worldly love, doubt, sorrow and pain. Pause.
Day and night, meditate I on the feet of my Guru.
Wherever I see, I see Thy refuge O Lord.
By the saints grace, sing I the praises of my God.
Meeting with his Guru, Nanak is blessed with bliss.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Contemplating the Lord's Name mental peace is obtained.
Meeting with the saintly persons, the Lord's praises are sung. Pause.
Showering His benediction the Lord has come to abide within my mind.
My forehead rests on the saints feet.
O my soul, meditate thou on thy Supreme Lord.
By the Guru's grace, Nanak, hears the praise of his God.
Kanra 5th Guru.
My mind craves to touch the Lord's feet.
My tongue is satiated with the fare of the God's name and mine eyes are content with my Lord's vision. Pause.
My ears are filled with the praise of my Lord am I am rid of all my sins, shortcomings and impieties.
My feet walk in the comfortable path of the Lord and my body limbs flower in the saints association.
I have grasped the protection of my Perfect and Imperishable Lord and I tire myself not making any other efforts.
Holding them by the hand, O Nanak, the Lord has saved His slaves and they shall perish not in the terribly dark world ocean.
Kanra 5th Guru.
They, within whom chirps the ruinous guile and thunder the lust like foolish demons, them, the death crushes many a time. Pause.
I am inebriate with ego, am imbued with other relishes and I love evil friend. My Beloved sees me wandering in lacs of lanes.
False are me dealing and unplanned is my style of life. Intoxicated with the wine of worldly love, I am burning in the fire of wrath.
O Merciful Master, the Embodiment of compassion, Cherisher of the universe and the Relative of the Meek, save Thou Nanak, Thy slave for, he has sought Thine refuge.
Kanra 5th Guru.
God is the Giver of soul, vital breath and the mind.
When man forgets God, he loses in every way. Pause.
Abandoning the World-Lord, thou are attached to another, O man and throwing away Nectar, are wholly occupied with dust.
How can one expect to gain bliss from the pleasure of vice, O fool? Why deem thou that peace lies in them?
The engrossment in lust, wrath and avarice is the mine of birth and death.
O Naka, I have entered the sanctuary of God, the Purifier of the sinners and I know that I shall be ferried across.
Kanra 5th Guru.
I look at the lotus like countenance of my Lord.
Searching and seeking, I have found the jewel of Lord's Name and am now rid of all anxiety. Pause.
Enshrining the Lord's lotus feet in my mind,
my pain and wickedness are effaced.
He, the Lord of universe is my dominion, wealth, family and everything.
Associating with the saints, Nanak has reaped the profit of God's Name and so he shall die not again.
Kanra 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Worship thy Lord, contemplate on His Name,
and repair to the feet of the Great True Guru.
The Incomprehensible Lord shall come into thy mind
and thou shall win the world, by Guru's grace. Pause.
Various Kings of worship I have scrutinized in many a way, That alone is the real worship which is pleasing to my God.
This body puppet is make of clay, then, what deed can It accomplish of itself?
O Lord, holding by the arm, whomsoever Thou put on the right path, that being alone meets with Thee.
O God, I know not another support; Thou alone are my support and hope.
What supplication I, the poor one, can make,
when the Lord abides in all the hearts?
My mind thirsts for the touch of the Lord's feet.
Says Thy slave and serf Nanak, a sacrifice, a sacrifice, yea, ever a sacrifice, am I unto Thee, O my Master.
Kanra 5th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Thy Name, O my Beloved, is the saviour of the world.
The Name of my God is the nine treasure of the riches.
My Beauteous Lord, whosoever is imbued with Thy love; he is blessed with bliss.
Why are thou, O my soul, clung to worldly love?
With thy eyes, see thou the vision of the saints.
He alone is blessed with the name on whose forehead it is so writ. Pause.
I serve the feet of the holymen and the pious persons.
I long for the dust of their feet, which renders me immaculate.
It is better than the ablution at the sixty-eight holies and washes off my filth.
With my every breath, contemplate I my Lord and turn not my face away from him.
Nothing, out of lakhs and millions of rupees, goes with the man.
It is only the sire Lord's Name, what inures with the mortal in the end.
Within thy mind, worship thou the one Formless Lord,
and be delivered of the love of all others.
What praises of Thine can I utter, O my Love?
I cannot narrate even one of Thine merits.
My mind greatly thirsts for the Lord's vision.
O Luminous, Lord, the Guru of the universe, meet Thou with Nanak.
Kanra 5th Guru.
What is such a way, by which I may obtain Thy vision, O Lord?. Pause.
O Lord, I hope and thirst for the wish-fulfilling vision of Thine. My mind craves and desires to see Thee.
Like the fish thirsting for water the meek saints, the Lord's saints remain merged in Him.
I am a dust of the feet of the Lord's saints.
I surrender my soul unto them.
The Lord has become merciful unto me.
O Nanak, when man sheds his ego and worldly love, then meets he with his reverend Lord.
Kanra 5th Guru.
The colourful and wondrous Lord imbues the mortal in His own colour.
From an ant to an elephant, the Lord is fully blended with all. Pause.
Men observe fasts, keep religious vows, go on pilgrimage to holies along with the Ganges.
They endure hunger poverty and the pain of the hot and the cold water.
Sitting cross-legged they perform worship and good-deeds.
They do the deeds of painting religious symbols and sacrificial marks on their six limbs.
They read through the six Shastras, but associate not with the saints society.
Men practise extremely forced rituals and keep standing on their head.
Thiswise, they are afflicted with the aliment of ego and their demerits are effaced not.
They burn in the fire of lust, wrath and extreme cravings.
He alone is emancipated, O Nanak, sublime is whose True Guru.
Kanra 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
My thirst is quenched meeting with the saintly persons.
By singing, and ever singing God's praises with poise and peace and being imbued with the love of the Lord's vision, the five thieves run away. Pause.
The good that the Lord has dome to me, how can I do unto Him like wise.
My soul, O Lord, is a sacrifice unto Thee, Yea, a sacrifice, an offering, a consecration and a presentation.
Firstly I fall at the saints feet and then being attuned to Thee, I remember and contemplate Thee, O Lord.
O Lord, what kind is Thy seat, seated whereon Thou give thought to Thine creatures?
Good many attendants of Thine, O God, sing Thy praise.
He alone meets with Thee, who is pleasing to Thee, Lord, The Master remains merged in him, O slave Nanak.
Thou, yea, Thou, and Thou alone are all in all, O my Lord.
Kanra 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He attained.
O my mind, shed thou thy self-conceit. Thy Loved compassionate Lord is seeing all. Be Yea, do thou be, the dust of His feet, O my soul. Pause.
By the instruction of the saints of God, be thou imbued with the gnosis and meditation of the Cherisher of the universe.
With thy heart, sing thou, the praise of thy Fascinating and Merciful to the meek Lord, and be attuned to His Lotus feet.
O Benevolent Lord, show Thou mercy and compassion unto me.
O Lord, Nanak, begs Thee for the bounty of Thy Name.
He has abandoned all his worldly love, doubt and self-conceit.
Kanra 5th Guru.
The utterance of God, praise burns the filth of sins, Meeting with the Guru, one is blessed with it, In no wise else it is obtained. Pause.
The banks of rivers, six rituals matted-hair, Incense-burning and mace bearing, these serve not the purpose.
Myriad sorts of effort, austerities, wanderings and utterance of various and gospels, by these means, the Lord limit and seat can be found not.
I have given thought to all other ways, but peace lies in the Name's meditation alone, O Nanak.
Kanra 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
The Lord is the purifier of the sinner, the Lover of His saints, the Destroyer of dread and a boat to ferry across. Pause.
My eyes are satiated by seeing the Lord's vision and my ears are sated by hearing His praise.
I, the meek one, seek the protection of the Beneficent Lord of the World, who is the support of my vital-breath and the Patron of the patronless.
God is the Fulfiller of hope and the Destroyed of pain, Nanak has grasped the refuge of His holy feet.
Kanra 5th Guru.
I seek the refuge of the feet of the Merciful Master. I have no other place to go to.
to purify the sinner is the daily practice of the Lord. Contemplating the Lord, men are ferried across. Pause.
The blind man has fallen into the quagmire of vice, attachment and ego of the world ocean,
and clinging to the worldly affairs, he is bewildered.
Holding me by the hand, Thou Thyself pull me out of it, O my Lord Master, the King and thiswise save thou me.
God is the Master of the Masterless, the Lord of the saints and the Destroyer of millions of sins.
My mind thirsts for Thy vision,
O my perfect Lord, the Treasure of virtues.
O Nanak, with thy tongue, sing thou the praise of thy compassionate and Merciful God, the Cherisher of the universe.
Kanra 5th Guru.
I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice, many times;
for the bliss of a moment's union in the night with my Beloved. Pause.
The gold mansions and the silk couches; with these, I have no love, O my maid.
The pearls, jewels and various pleasures are destructive without the Name. O Nanak.
Notwithstanding dry bread and sleeping on the floor, my life night passes in peace with my spouse, O my maid.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Shed thou, thy ego and turn thy face God-wards,
and uttering the Guru's Name, long thou for him in Thy mind.
My Groom is the Lover of affection. Pause.
Snap, O snap, yea sever thou, thy bonds with the five demons and beauteous shall become the couch of thy home and comfortable thy courtyard.
Then, thou shall come and go not, but shall abide in thy own seat and thy inebriated heart lotus shall blossom.
The noise of thy self conceit shall be stilled;
on singing, singing the praise of thy Lord, the ocean of virtues, O Nanak.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Thou contemplate, contemplate, on thy Lord, O man.
This is the way, which the saints and the Vedas say is arduous. But thou are inebriated with the fever of attachment and ego. Pause.
They who are imbued and intoxicated with the wretched mammon, they writhe in the pain of its attachment.
That man alone in emancipated by contemplating the Name, whom Thou Thyself emancipate, O Lord.
By the Saints grace, O Nanak, attachment, dread and doubt are dispelled.
Kanra 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
O Sire saints, bless ye me, with such bounty of the Lord's Name, to which my soul is devoted.
Bewitched by ego and defrauded and entrapped by the five demons, I abided in their nearness I have now sought the saints refuge and am delivered of the association of the five demons. Pause.
Being tired by wandering through myriads of births and existences, I have now fallen at the God's door.
The Lord of the world has shown mercy and I am now blessed with the Name's support.
My invaluable life has become fruitful, O Nanak and I am ferried across the world ocean.
Kanra 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace is He obtained.
Of Himself, the Lord has come to meet with me all-too-spontaneously.
I know nothing, nor have I shown any good quality.
Through child-like innocence, I have met with my Lord and he has blessed me with peace. Pause.
Good fortune has united me with the saints society.
I now go no where and abide in my home.
God, the Treasure of virtues, has become manifest within this body cloak of mine.
I have fallen in love with the Lord's feet and have abandoned all else.
In places and their inter-spaces and all over my Lord is pervading.
With joy and love, Nanak utters the praises of the Lord.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Hard indeed it is to meet God, the Lord of Universe.
The Lord of Inestimable, Inaccessible and Inapprehensible From is pervading everywhere. Pause.
Through mere utterance, wanderings, cleverness or such other contrivances, the Lord is definitely not gained and obtained.
Various means, artifices and efforts succeed not, When the Lord is merciful, then alone meets He, O man.
My kind and compassionate Lord is the treasure of mercy, Slave Nanak is the dust of saints feet.
Kanra 5th Guru.
O my mother, ever do I meditate on the Lord, my Lord God.
Without the Lord, there is not another.
With every breath and night and day, meditate I, on the Lord's lotus feet. Pause.
Loving the Lord, I have owned Himself and now my union with Him snaps not.
God, the Treasure of virtues and bliss is my vital breath, my soul, my wealth and everything.
Here and hereafter the Lord Is pervading and I see Him in the every heart.
In the saints, refuge I have been ferried across and am rid of my appalling agony, O Nanak.
Kanra 5th Guru.
I, the Lord's slave, bear love to my Lord.
O Lord, Thou alone are my Friend and Intimate. All the things are in Thy abode.
I ask for glory, I ask for power and bless Thou me with riches, property and sons.
O my perfect Being. Thou are the Blesser of emancipation, prosperity and worldly comforts. supreme bliss and the most excellent treasure.
Imbued with Thy fear, love and meditation, Nanak is in utter bliss and is ever, ever a sacrifice unto Thee, O Lord.
Kanra 5th Guru.
The debaters indulge and ever indulge in controversies and debates.
The yogis, contemplators, sectarians, divines and globe-trotters roam and ramble about the earth and its various parts. Pause.
Some are engrossed in ego and self-conceit and are stupid, ignorant, unwise and crazy.
wheresoever they go and wander about, death is ever, yea, ever and always with them.
O man, abandon thou thy ego, pride and self-conceit. Death, yea, death is ever near and close to thee.
Says Nanak, hearken thou unto me, O ignorant man, utter thou the Lord Master's Name, Without God's meditation and contemplation, thy life is going in vain.
Kanra Ashtpadis 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
O my soul, utter thou the Lord's Name and thou shall be blessed with peace.
The more thou remember God, the more peace thou shall obtain. Serving the True Guru, thou shall merge in the Lord. Pause.
Every moment, the saintly persons long for the Name and, meditating on the Name, they obtain bliss.
Their relish of other pleasures is all eliminated and, save the Name, nothing pleases them.
By the Guru's instruction, the Lord God seems sweet unto them and the Guru makes them utter sweet words.
Through the True Guru's word, the sublime person is revealed and they fix their mind with the Guru's word.
Hearing the Guru's word, my mind has become tender and imbued with it, this mind has returned to its own home.
There resounds and ever resounds the celestial strain and the stream of Nectar incessantly trickles.
When man sings the praise of the Lord's Name at every moment, he then merges in the Name through the Guru's instruction.
God's Name he hears, God's Name pleases his mind and with God's Name, he is satiated.
Thought man may don many bracelets of glittering gold and wear various sorts of clothes,
but without the Lord's Name, they are all insipid and vain and he shall continue the cycle of birth and death.
Mammon veil is a great veil and through it, man lands in the whirlpool of desire, wherein his home is destroyed.
All the sins and vices are heavy like the rusted iron and with them the poisonous and arduous world ocean can be crossed not.
God's fear and love are the ship and the Guru the helmsman, who ferries man across with the help of Lord's Name.
Meeting with the Lord God's Name, one merges in the Name of the Lord God.
Attached to ignorance, man is lulled to sleep and, yoking him to gnosis, the Guru awakens him.
O Nanak, in His will, the Lord makes man walk, in the same way as it pleases Him.
Kanra 5th Guru.
O my soul, utter thou the Lord God's Name and it shall ferry thee across.
Whosoever meditates on Him, he is emancipated and merges in the Lord like Dhru and Prahlad. Pause.
O Sire Lord, show Thou, mercy, and kindness unto me and mercifully attach Thou me to Thy name.
Mercifully lead me on to the True Guru, by meeting with the True Guru, I shall dwell upon Thy Name, O my Master.
The filth of ego of many births sticks to me and it is by meeting with the saints society that this filth can be washed off.
As iron, attached with wood ferries across, so does the man, attuned to the Guru's word, obtain the Lord.
Join thou the saints society, company of the divine oriented, for, meeting with the saints society, thou shall be blessed with the Lord's Name elixir.
Whosoever associates not with the saints and does deeds of ego, he is like a person, who draws out water and throws it in mud.
God is the Protector of the saintly persons and God's name elixir tastes sweet to the saints.
Them, the Lord blessed with glory every moment and, through the True Guru's instruction, they merge in Him.
Ever pay thou obeisance to the Lord's devotees. if thou bow to the God's slaves, thou shall obtain the fruit of virtues.
the villains, who slander the saints are wasted away like Harnakhsh.
Brahma, the son of Lotus and Vyas, the son of Fish, practised austerities and were worshipped.
Whosoever is the Lord's slave, adore him, ridding thyself of illusion and doubt.
Be thou not misled seeing the high and low caste, Sukhdev, the Brahman, contemplated his Lord repairing to the feet of Janak, the Khashtri.
The left-over of the leafy plates fell over his head, but his mind wavered not even a bit and trice.
King Janak while sitting on his throne, took the dust of the feet of the nine sages and applied it to his forehead.
O Lord, show Thou mercy, and compassion unto Nanak and make him the slave of Thine slaves.
Kanra 5th Guru.
O my Soul, by the Guru's instruction, sing thou, the praises of thy God with love.
May my one tongue becomes lacs and millions; with these lacs and millions of tongues, I would sing the praises of my Lord a myriad times over. Pause.
The serpent King utters the Lord's Name with thousands of his hoods, but by so uttering he can find not the Lord's limit.
Thou. O Lord, are exceedingly Unfathomable, Infinite and Inaccessible. It is through the wisdom imparted that the mind is balanced.
They who ponder over Thee, O Lord, sublime are those persons. whosoever contemplates his God, is blessed with peace.
Krishan hugged to his heart and bosom Bidur, and untouchable lad, the son of a hand-maiden.
The wood is produced from water, so, taking the side of wood, the water drowns it not.
Of Himself, the Lord God embellishes His slaves and upholds His innate nature.
I am like stone and iron, yea, like a heavy stone and iron but, embarking on the boat of the Guru's congregation I am ferried across.
Just as Kabir, the weaver, was emancipated through the saints society and had become pleasing to the pious persons mind, so shall I be emancipated.
Standing, sitting, getting up and walking on the road and path, meditate I on my Lord.
The True Guru is the word and the word is the True Guru. The holy word shows the way to emancipation.
Through the Guru's chastisement, I have become powerful to contemplate fearlessly the Lord's Name with my every breath.
When by the Guru's grace, man's ego is stilled, then, merges he, in the Lord's Name, through the Guru's instruction.
The True Guru is the giver of the spiritual life, but, the unfortunate ones love him not.
This opportunity shall not come to hand again and in great distress one shall regret in the end.
If some good man seeks good for Himself, he should lie Prostrate before the Guru.
Says Nanak, O Lord, show Thou mercy and compassion unto me, that I may anoint my forehead with the dust of the True Guru's feet.
Kanra 5th Guru.
Imbued with God's love, my soul sings His praise.
Through the Lord's fear and adopting the mordant of the Guru's instruction, I am rid of other fears and dreads and am rendered immaculate. Pause.
He, who is imbued with the Lord's love, remains ever detached and abides near God; Yea, the Lord comes into his home.
If I am blessed with the dust of their feet, then alone can I live, Showering His benediction, the Lord, of Himself blesses me with it.
The mortals are attached to duality and avarice, Their uncultured mind takes not the Lord's colour.
By the Guru's instruction, man's way of life is changed and meeting with the Omnipotent Guru, he is imbued with the Lord's love.
There are ten organs and all the ten continue qualities, too, remains not stable even for a moment.
Pleasing the True Guru man overpowers them and he them, attains deliverance and emancipation.
The One Lord alone is pervading all over and everything shall merge in the One Lord ultimately.
The Lord of one from, has become manifest in many forms, and He drives all in His own command.
The Guru-ward realises but One God and by the Guru's grace, he realises of One alone.
The pious person goes and meets the Lord in His mansion and then, for him, rings the celestial strain.
The Lord has created all the creatures and the world, but it is only through the Guru, that one is blessed with glory.
Without meeting with the Guru, one attains not the Lord's presence and suffers pain in coming and going.
Since many births, I am separated from my Beloved Lord. Showing mercy, the Guru shall unite me with Him.
Meeting with the True Guru, I have obtained supreme bliss and my soiled mind has blossomed.
O Lord, Master, the life of the world, show Thou mercy unto me and instill faith in me in Thy Name.
O Nanak, the Great God is the True Guru and in the refuge of the True Guru, I shall ever abide.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O my soul, walk thou on the path, which is in accordance with the instruction of the Guru.
As the wild elephant, subjected to an iron-goad, is subdued, so is the mind disciplined with the goad of the Guru's teaching. Pause.
The mercurial mind roams and rambles in ten, yea ten directions, but, disciplined by the Guru, it is attuned to the Lord.
The True Guru installs the holy word in the man's mind and the Name-Nectar trickles into this mouth.
Man is fully-filled with the serpent-like poison of sins but, the antidote of the Guru's word swallows them all.
The snake of mammon draws not near him who rid of the poison of sins and is attuned to the Lord.
The dog of avarice is very powerful in the body abode, but the Guru smites and expels it in a moment.
The Guru enshrines truth, contentment and faith in the body abode and then man sings the Lord God's praises.
The mortal is sinking in the mire of worldly love and the Guru saves him from sinking.
When man repeating "Save me, save me" comes into the Guru's refuge, the Guru extends his hand and pulls him out.
The whole world is like the game of a dream. The Lord, of Himself, causes the whole game and play to be played.
If man departs, reaping the Name's profit under the Guru's instruction, he goes to the Lord's court robed with glory.
In ego man acts, in ego he makes others act and thus brings and amasses he, the blackness of sins in ego.
When death comes, he suffers pain because the man must eat that, what he had sown.
O saints, amass the wealth of the Lord's Name; if ye depart by taking this viaticum, ye shall obtain honour.
Eat, expend and bestow it abundantly and God will so give ye, that there shall be no deficiency.
The wealth of the Lord's Name is within the mind, Seeking the Guru's refuge, ye shall obtain this wealth.
Nanak, showing His mercy and compassion, the Lord has blest me with this wealth and removing my misery has blended me with Himself.
Kanra 4th Guru.
O my soul, enter thou into the sanctuary of the True Guru and meditate on thy Lord.
As iron is transmuted into gold by touching the philosopher's stone, so do the virtues of the invaluable personality of the Guru enter into his disciples. Pause.
The True Guru, the supreme person, is the philosopher's stone. Whosoever is attached to him, he gathers the fruit.
Just as Prahlad saved by the Guru's instruction, similarly the Guru protects the honour of all his attendants.
The True Guru's word if the sublime word. By the Guru's word, the Name-Nectar is obtained.
Whosoever reflects on the Supreme True Guru's word, he is blessed with the immortal status like Amrik, the King.
The True Guru's refuge, yea, his refuge is pleasing to my mind. Deeming the Name-Nectar immaculate, meditate I on it.
The True Guru has become merciful unto me, the meek one and he has shown me the way and path of God.
They, who enter the sanctuary of the True Guru, are blessed with glory and the Lord comes to protect them.
If some one aims an arrow on the Lord's slave, turning back, it hits him ultimately.
They, who bathe in the Name-tank of the Lord God Master, yea, the Lord God, they are blessed with honour in His Court.
He, who by Guru's instructions, Guru's directions, and Guru's teaching meditates on God; him, the Lord hugs to His bosom and unites in His union.
The Supreme Guru is the celestial strain for him and the Supreme Guru, the Vedas; by pleasing the Guru, he ponders on the Lord's Name.
Contemplating the Beauteous Lord God, man becomes the embodiment of the Lord. The Lord makes the world worship such a slave of His.
The perverse person comes not into the True Guru's fold. Such a non-believer, God makes wander in species.
The wave of avarice is the association of a cur, It attaches one to the Skeleton of the poisonous mammon.
The Lord's Name is the emancipation of the whole world and associating with the society of saints, one contemplates the Name.
O my Lord keep, sustains and maintain Thou, Nanak, in the saints congregation, so that he may be absorbed in Thee.
Kanra Chhant 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace is He obtained.
They alone are emancipated, who meditate their Lord.
The efforts, make to amass wealth, avail one not.
They, who contemplate their Lord are blessed with all the fruits. O Blest, blest and very fortunate are they.
They remain awake in the saints congregation, are attached to the Name and embrace affection for the one Lord.
I have shed ego, attachment and sin, by the saints' grace, and repairing to their feet, I am ferried across.
Prays Nanak, I have sought the protection of the Lord and through great good fortune, I am blessed with His vision.
Meeting together, the saints ever contemplate their Lord.
With relish and love, sing they, the Lord's praise.
They live by singing God's praises, in-drink the Lord's Nectar and their comings and goings are ended.
Associating with the saints congregation and contemplating God, one is afflicted not with pain, again.
On whomsoever the Omnipotent and Beneficent Creator Lord shows mercy, he performs the saints service.
Supplicates Nanak, O Lord, I long for the dust of Thy saints feet, that I may spontaneously merge in Thine vision.
Let all the mortals dwell upon their Lord, the Cherisher of the world.
In the Lord's meditation is contained the merit of worship, austerities, self-control and perfect service.
By ever dwelling upon the Lord, the Knower of hearts, the entire life becomes fruitful.
Whosoever sings the world-Lord's praises and contemplates His ever, his coming into the world is approved.
The meditation of the Immaculate Lord's Name is my worship, austere conduct and self-control. The wealth of the Lord's Name alone shall go with me.
Supplicates Nanak, O Lord, mercifully bless Thou me with the jewel of Thy Name, that I may tie it to my skirt.
I am blessed with paeans of truly wondrous plays and joy,
as the Lord of supreme bliss, has met me through His grace.
God Lord, the Harbinger of peace, has met with me and my mind's desire are fulfilled.
Men congratulate me, I am absorbed in the Lord and I shall cry not again in pain.
The Lord has hugged me to His bosom and has blessed me with bliss and I am rid of all the evil sins.
Prays Nanak, I have met with my Lord God, the Embodiment of supreme bliss.
Var of Kanra 4th Guru to be sung to the tune of the Ballad of Musa.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Slok 4th Guru.
Through the Guru's instruction, keep thou enshrined in thy mind the treasure of the Lord God's Name.
Ridding thyself of the poison of thy self-conceit, ever thou the slave of the Lord's slaves.
This-wise thou shall win the treasure of life and shall lose not ever.
Blest, blest and very fortunate are they, O Nanak, who, by the Guru's instruction, take care of the Lord's elixir.
4th Guru.
God, the Lord yea, God, the Lord Master of the world, is the Treasure of virtues.
If we meditate, on Lord God, through the Guru's instruction, then we are blessed with glory in the Lord's Court.
Contemplating his God, the Lord Master, man's countenance is rendered bright and the he becomes the first amongst men.
Nanak, the Guru is in Embodiment of the Lord God, meeting with whom one is blessed with the God's Name.
Pauri.
O Lord, Thou Thyself are the adept and the Striver. Thou Thyself are the Yogi and Yogis.
Thou Thyself are the Taster of the tastes and Thou Thyself the Enjoyer of enjoyments.
Thou Thyself pervade everywhere and what Thou Thyself do, that alone comes to pass.
Blest, blest, blest, blest, blest is the true society of the True Guru, through whom one meets his God and utters and recites His Name.
With their mouth, let all the men utter God, God, God, God, God, God. By uttering God all the sins are washed off.
Slok 4th Guru.
God, God, God, God's Name, rare is the one, who is blessed with it by the Guru's grace.
His ego and attachments are eradicated and the name washes off his evil-tendencies.
Nanak, whosoever is so predestined, he recites Lord's praises night and day.
4th Guru.
The Merciful Lord is Himself all-in all. Whatever God Himself does, that alone comes to pass.
Of Himself, the Lord pervades everywhere and as great as God, there is not another.
What the God Lord wills, that alone comes to pass and whatever the God Lord does, that alone is accomplished.
No one can appraise His worth for Infinite is He, the Lord God.
Nanak, praising the Lord by the Guru's grace, man's body and mind are clamed down.
Pauri.
O God, the life of the world, Thy light illumines all light, Thou, O Lord, imbue every heart with Thy love.
All meditate on Thee, O my Beloved, True yea, true Thou are, O my Immaculate Lord.
The One Lord alone is the Giver while the whole world is the mumper. All the mumpers beg and ask for the Lord's bounties.
Thou Thyself are the servant and Thyself the Lord, By the Guru's instruction, the mortal becomes the sublime of the sublime.
Let all the men, with their mouth recite that God is the Lord of all the faculties, God is the Lord of all the faculties, thatwise thou shall obtain the fruit of all the fruits.
Slok 4th Guru.
O my mind, contemplate thou, thy Lord God's Name and thou shall obtain honour in the Lord's Court.
Fixing thy attention on the Guru's word, thou shall obtain the fruit that thou desire.
All thine misdeeds and sins shall be effaced and thou shall be rid of thy ego and self-conceit.
By the Guru's grace, man's heart lotus flowers and he beholds the Lord within every mind.
O God, the Lord Master, show Thou mercy unto slave Nanak, that he may utter the Lord's Name.
4th Guru.
Immaculate is the Lord God's Name. Uttering the Name, man is rid of his pain.
God comes and abides in the mind of those, who are thus pre-destined.
Whosoever walks in the True Guru's will, he is rid of this penury and sufferings.
No body finds the Lord by walking in his own will. O man, realize this and satisfy thy soul.
Servant Nanak, is the slave of the slaves of him who fall at the feet of the True Guru.
Pauri.
My Creator-Lord, Thou are fully-filling all the places and inter-spaces, Thou alone has fashioned all makes.
Thou alone has created the entire world of various hues and wondrous colours. This Thou has fashioned in many ways and in many forms.
My Luminous Lord, Thy light is contained amongst all and Thou alone engage man to the Guru's instructions.
O my God, they unto whom Thou are merciful, them Thou lead on to the True Guru and instruct them through the supreme Guru's word.
Utter ye all, the Lord's Name, yea, the Venerable Lord's Name, by which poverty, pain and pangs of hunger shall all be removed.
Slok 4th Guru.
Sweet is the Lord God's Name Nectar, so, enshrine thou the Lord God's Nectar in thy mind.
The Lord God abides in the saints congregation. reflecting on the Guru's world thou shall realise Him.
Contemplating the Lord God's Name within my mind, I am rid of the poison of my self conceit.
Whosoever remembers not the Lord God's name, he loses all his life in gamble.
When the Guru is mercifully, man contemplates the Lord and the Lord's Name within his mind.
O Slave Nanak, that man's face sparkles in that Lord's True Court.
4th Guru.
Glorious is the Lord's praise and the Lord's Name. It is the sublime deed in the Darkage.
By the Guru's teaching and instruction, man is blessed with the Lord's praise and he wears the necklace of the Lord God's Name In his mind.
Very fortunate are they who meditate on God, To them are entrusted the God's treasure.
Without the Name, Whatever other deeds man may do, he is ever wasted away in ego.
The elephant (mind) is scrubbed and bathed with water, even then he throws dust on his head again.
O my true Guru, mercifully lead me onto the Lord, that the One Supreme Being may abide within my mind.
The Guru-wards who hear of God and believe in Him, slave Nanak pays homage unto them.
Pauri.
Sublime is the merchandise of the Lord's Name. He, the Lord God, is my Master.
The Lord God has initiated the play and He Himself pervades therein. The whole world, He has make the dealer in His Name.
O my Luminous creator, Thy light shines within all the beings and true is all Thine expanse.
Accredited are all those, who by the Guru's instructions, contemplate Thee and sing Thine praises, O Formless Lord.
Utter ye all, with your mouth, the Name of God, the Lord of the world, yea, the Lord of the world and the life of the universe, by which you shall cross the terrible world ocean.
Slok 4th Guru.
I have but one tongue, but Unapproachable and Unfathomable are the Lord God's virtues.
How can I, the ignorant one, remember Thee, O God? Thou are Great, Unfathomable and Unweighable.
O Lord, bless Thou me with sublime wisdom, that I may fall at the great True Guru's feet.
My Lord God, unite Thou me with the saints society, that I, the sinner, may be saved with them.
O Lord Master, pardon Thou Thy slave Nanak and be merciful to unite him in Thy union.
O God, mercifully hear Thou my supplication and ferry me, a sinner and a worm.
4th Guru.
O Lord, the life of the world, show Thou mercy unto me and make me meet the compassionate, great True Guru.
God, the Lord Master has become merciful unto me and I now love the service of the Guru.
I have forgotten all my hopes and desires and my mind is rid of the worldly entanglements.
In his mercy, the Guru has implanted the Name within me and has make me happy with his world.
Serf Nanak has attained the inexhaustible wealth, the Lord Master's Name is his wealth and poverty.
Pauri.
O Lord, Thou are the greatest of the great and lofty. Far above all, Thou are the grandest of the grand.
They who contemplate and remember their Infinite God, yea, the Lord God Master, they are rendered verdant.
They who sing and hear Thy praise, O Lord, millions of their sins are destroyed.
O the greatest of the great, supreme Lord, through the Guru's instructions and teachings, I look upon the exceedingly fortunate Divine persons Just like Thee.
Let every one dwell upon Him, who was true in the prime and true in the beginning of ages, who is true now and shall ever, yea, ever be true and whom Serf Nanak is the slave of slaves.
Slok 4th Guru.
Within my mind is God, the Life of the world and by the Guru's instructions, meditate I on my Lord God.
Unfathomable, Unapprehensible and Unapproachable is my Lord Master and He, the Lord has all too spontaneously come and met me.
Of Himself, the Lord is pervading all hearts and, of Himself the Lord is infinite.
Himself, the Lord God enjoy all pleasures and Himself is He the spouse of mammon.
God Himself gives alms to the whole world and the creatures, that He has created.
O Compassionate God, the Lord Master, bless me Thou with the bounty of Thy Name. thine slaves and saints ever beg Thee for it.
O Lord of serf Nanak, come and meet with me. I sing the songs of Thy praise, O God.
4th Guru.
The Name of the Lord God is my real friend. The Lord's Name is permeating my body, mind and frame.
All my hopes are realised by the Guru's grace and, hearing of his God, slave Nanak is comforted.
Pauri.
The Lord, sublime Name is ever reverduring. God, the Immaculate Lord is the Emancipator of the mortals.
They, who, day and night, utter the Lord's name, their feet, the goddess of wealth ever adores.
God ever looks after all the creatures and abides with all, both near and far.
He alone realise the Lord Master, whom He Himself instructs and on whom is the mercy of the true Guru.
Let every one sing the praises of the Lord God, yea, the Lord God, and the Lord God alone, By so ringing His praises, one merges in the virtuous Lord.
Slok 4th Guru.
O My soul, contemplate thou thy God Lord even in sleep, merging into the trance of equipoise.
O Mother, slave Nanak's mind craves to see his Lord God and he would meet with Him if the Guru be merciful to him.
4th Guru.
With the One Lord, I am in love and the One God, cherish I, within my mind.
Slave Nanak leans on the Lord alone and from the Lord alone he obtains honour and emancipation.
Pauri.
By the Guru's instructions, the five tunes ring within my mind and through, great good fortune, hear I, the resounding of the celestial strain.
Through the Guru's teachings, the Master of the universe has become manifest unto me and I now see the Lord, the source of bliss, pervading everywhere.
Since the prime and the beginning of ages, the Lord has but One form. Through the Guru's instructions, within my mind, I now meditate on the Lord alone.
O My merciful Lord God, yea, the God Lord, bless Thou me with the gift of Thy Name and save the honour of Thy slave.
Let all men proclaim, blest, blest is the great True Guru, great True Guru, meeting with whom the Lord covers the mortals demerits.
Slok 4th Guru.
Brimful is the tank of devotion fill to the brim, it is flowing over.
Only the very fortunate ones, who obey the True Guru, obtain it, O slave Nanak.
4th Guru.
Countless are the Names of the Lord God. The virtues of the Lord Master can be told not. Unapproachable.
Unfathomable is the Lord Master, In what way can the Lord's slaves unite in His union?
The saints repeat and recite the Lord Master's praise, but they know not even a bit of His worth.
O slave Nanak, inaccessible is the Lord master. Attaching me with Thy skirt, O God, unite me Thou with Thyself.
Pauri.
Unfathomable, Incomprehensible and Inscrutable is the Lord Master. How can I see His vision?
If God were a material thing, I would describe Him, but, He has no form and features.
Whosoever He Himself instruction, he alone is instructed Such a person sees the Lord's vision.
The society of the True Guru is the school, where the mortal is instructed in the Lord's merits.
Blessed, blessed is the tongue, blessed the hand, and blessed the True Guru teacher, meeting with whom the God's account is writ.
Slok 4th Guru.
Nectar sweet is the Lord God's Name. if man loves the True Guru, then alone can he contemplate his Lord.
Immaculate is the Lord God's Name. Uttering and hearing the God's Name, pain departs.
They alone meditate on the God's Name, on whose forehead it is so writ by God.
The person, in whose mind God has come to abide, are robed with honour in the Lord's Court.
O slave Nanak, bright are the faces of those who hear the Lord's Name with hearty love.
4th Guru.
Treasure of bliss is the Lord Master's Name. It is by the Guru's grace that one attains it.
They, on whose forehead, it is so writ by the Lord, them, the True Guru comes to meet.
Their body and soul are refreshed and peace comes to dwell within their mind.
Nanak, uttering the God's Name, poverty and pain are dispelled.
Pauri.
Ever, ever I am a sacrifice unto those who have seen my beloved the True Guru.
They alone meet with my True Guru on whose forehead it is so writ by the Lord.
By the Guru's instructions, contemplate I, My Unfathomable God. He, the Lord, has no form and sing.
They, who meditate on the Inaccessible Lord, by the Guru's word, those slave, meeting with their master's become one With Him.
Utter ye all with your mouth the Name of God, the man lion, yea, God, the man-lion, God, the main-lion. Sublime is the profit of the Lord God's meditation.
Slok 4th Guru.
The Lord's Name is pervading and filling all. Utter thou only the all pervading Lord's Name.
In every heart, the All pervading Soul is contained. The Lord has created the world play of various colours and in various ways.
God, the life of the world abides very near. the Guru, the friend has made this manifest unto me.
They alone meet with their Lord God yea, the Lord God, for whom the Lord's love is pre-writ.
Slave Nanak meditates on the Name and, through the Guru's instructions, utters it with his mind and heart.
4th Guru.
Search thou, the Lord God, the friend. Through good fortune, He abides within the mind of the very fortunate ones.
It is through the Perfect Guru, O Nanak, that one sees the Lord and is attuned to Him.
Pauri.
Auspicious, blessed, beauteous and fruitful is the moment, when God's service become pleasing to man's mind.
O the disciples of my Guru, utter ye, the Ineffable Divine discourse and story of my God Lord.
How can I attain unto and how can I see my All-wise and Omniscient God Lord?
Through the Guru's word, God manifests Himself to man, unites him with Himself and merges him in His Name.
Nanak, is a sacrifice unto those who dwell upon their detached Lord.
Slok 4th Guru.
He, whom the Guru blesses with the salv of wisdom has his eye imbued with the God Lord's love.
I have attained unto my Lord, the Friend, O slave Nanak and have merged with Him.
4th Guru.
Within the mind the Guru-ward attains peace and his soul and body are merged in the Name.
He contemplates the Name, reads the Name and remains attuned only to the Name.
He is blessed with the wealth of the Lord's Name and is rid of anxiety.
Meeting with the True Guru, God's Name wells up in man and all his cravings and hunger depart.
Nanak, whosoever is imbued with the Name, he gathers the Name in his lap.
Pauri.
Creating the world Thyself, O Lord, Thou Thyself hold it under Thy sway.
Making some self-willed, Thou make them lose and some Thou unite with the Guru and they win their life game.
Sublime is the Name of God, the Lord Master. The fortunate ones alone utter it through the Guru's word.
When the Guru blesses man with the Lord's Name, he is rid of all his pain and penury.
Let everyone serve the Enchanter, the soul Enchanter, the world Enchanter, who creating the world, holds all under His sway.
Slok 4th Guru.
Within men's mind is the ailment of ego and the egocentric and evil persons stray in doubt.
Nanak, meeting with the True Guru saint, the Friend, men are purged of the ailment.
4th Guru.
The alone my soul and body are embellished, when I see my Lord with my eyes.
Nanak seeks to meet with that Lord, by hearing whose voice he lives.
Pauri.
My Creator-Lord is the Lord of the world, the Master of the universe, Infinite, Omnipotent and Unweighable.
O the disciples of my Guru, contemplate ye, the Lord's Name. Sublime is my Lord God and invaluable is His Name.
They, who heartitly contemplate their God, day and night, they must meet with him and there is no doubt about it.
By the Great good fortunate, one is blessed with the saints society and the Perfect word of the great True Guru.
Let all men meditate on their Lord, yea, the true Lord, which all the disputes and quarrels with the death courier are ended.
Slok 4th Guru.
God's slave utters God's Name, The ignorant man aims an arrow at him.
Nanak, God's slave is saved by God's love and, recoiling back, the arrow destroys him alone who has shout it.
4th Guru.
They, whose eyes are attracted by the Lord's love, behold the Lord God by contemplating His Name.
If the eyes see another, O slave Nanak, they ought to be gouged out.
Pauri.
He, the Infinite Lord is fully pervading the water, the earth and the sky.
He sustains all the creatures, whatever He does, that alone comes to pass.
Without Him, their is no other mother, father, son, brother of friend.
He is contained in all hearts. Everyone ought to meditate on Him.
Let everyone utter the praises of the World-Sustainer, who is manifest throughout the whole world.
Slok 4th Guru.
The friends who meet with the sublime Guru, are blessed with the Lord God's love.
O slave Nanak, praise thou the Lord's Name, so that you may go to the Lord's court in utter joy.
4th Guru.
O God, Thou are the Beneficent Lord of all and all the beings are Thine.
All of them meditate on Thee, O Love and Thou bless them with thine bounties.
God, the beneficent Giver just puts forth His hand and the rain pours on the world.
The corn of the Name germinates in the mind field and man contemplates God's Name with love.
O my Lord God, slave Nanak asks for the gift of the support of Thy Name alone.
Pauri.
Meditating on God, Ocean of peace. mind's aspirations are fulfilled.
Through the Guru's word, the mine of jewels, the Lord's feet are meditated upon.
Meeting with the saints society, man is delivered and papers of his death's courier are torn off.
Meditating on the detached Lord, one wins the treasures of Human life.
Let everyone seek the True Guru's refuge, so that stigma of sorrow may be blotted out.
Slok 4th Guru.
I have been searching for my Friend, but my Friend is with me.
O Slave Nanak, the Invisible Lord is seen not. The supreme Guru alone does help us to see Him.
4th Guru.
Nanak, I am love with that True Lord of mine, without Him, I can live not.
When man meets with the True Guru, then alone he attains unto the perfect Lord and his tongue enjoys the Guru's Name-elixir.
Pauri.
Some sing some hear and some utter and preach the Lord's praises.
Their filth of many births is washed off and they obtain their heart desired fruits.
Their comings and going are ended and they sing their God's praises.
They save themselves, save their friends and save all their generations as well.
Slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto him, who is pleasing to my God Lord.
Rag Kanra Hymns of Sire Nam Dev
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace is He obtained.
The Sovereign Lord, the inner Knower, is so seeing everything,
as one clearly sees one's countenance in a mirror. Pause.
He abides in every heart and no impurity or stigma attaches to Him.
He is free from entanglements and does not seem to belong to any casts.
As man sees his countenance reflected in clear water,
so does He see the Beloved Lord of Nama in the clear mind.
Rag Kalyan 4th Guru.
There is but One God. True is His Name, creative His personality and Immortal His from. He is fearless, sans enmity, beyond birth and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace, He is obtained.
Of the Beauteous and All-pervading Lord, no one has found the limit.
O Great God, Thou are my Father and Mother. I am a child of Thine and by Thee am I sustained. Pause.
Innumerable and Inscrutable are the Names of God, my God, the King, is Unapproachable and Unfathomable.
The men of virtue and gnosis have given great thought to Thee, but they have found not even an iota of Thy worth, O Lord.
They ever sing the praises of God, the Lord of the world, but of the Lord's praises, they found not the limit.
Immeasurable, Unweighable and Illimitable are Thou, O Lord. Howsoever much man may meditate on Thee, he can fathom not Thy depth.
O the Spouse of mammon, the saints praise Thee and sing Thine virtues, O God, the King.
Thou are an ocean of water and I am a fish of Thine. No one has ever found thy end.
Show Thou mercy unto me, Thy Slave, O God, the Lover of Name-Nectar and bless Thou me with meditation of Thy Name.
For me, the blind fool, the Name is the only support. Through the Guru's grace, slave Nanak is blessed with the Lord's Name.
Kalyan 4th Guru.
Singing the Lord's praise, the Lord's slave blossoms forth.
By the Guru's instruction, my mind is embellished with the Lord God's meditation, Such is the Lord's primal writ on my forehead. Pause.
Day and night, contemplate, I, the Guru's feet and, therefore, God, the Lord Master, comes to abide within my mind.
In this world, sublime is the Lord God master's praise. I utter the Lord's praise and this is the sandal that grate I.
The Lord's slave it attuned to the Lord God's Name and all the mammon-worshippers are after him to harm him.
As is the writ of his past deeds, so does the slanderous persons walk, His foot stumbles upon the she-snake and he is burnt by its sting.
O my Lord God, Thou are the Saviour of Thy slave. Thou save Thy slave in every age.
What does it matters, if a demon talks ill of the saint, By so doing and acting all are sacked.
All those creatures, created by the Lord, are ultimately caught in the mouth of death.
God's saints, O slave Nanak, Lord God, yea, the Lord God, of Himself protects, for they repair to His protection.
Kalyan 4th Guru.
O my soul, utter thou the Name of the Lord of the universe.
Contemplating the God's Name by the Guru's instructions, I am rid of all sins and sorrows. Pause.
My one tongue is insufficient to sing Thine praises. O my Lord, bless Thou me with many, good many, yea good many tongue.
With all those tongues, every moment and trice, I would sing Thine praises, over the over again, although even, then I would not be able to say all thine praises. O my Lord.
O my God, the Lord Master, I am deeply in love with thee and long to see Thy vision.
Thou are the great Beneficent Lord of all the creatures and know our troubles.
If some one shows me the way and path of the Lord, tell me, what should I give unto him?
I would surrender, offer and dedicate all my body and soul unto him. Let some one unite me in my Lord's union.
Many, good many are the excellences of the Lord and sublime is His glory. I have been able to describe Lord of slave Nanak.
My mind is in Thy hand, O Lord and Thou alone are the All-powerful Lord of slave Nanak.
Kalyan 4th Guru.
O my soul, utter thou the Lord's praises, which are said to be ineffable.
Faith, wealth, success and salvation, all walk like shadow after the Lord's slave. Pause.
That slave of God alone contemplate the Lord master's Name, on whose forehead good fortune is writ.
In that Court, where the Lord calls for the accounts, there meditation of the name alone leads to one's deliverance.
I am soiled with many sins of myriad births and with the pain and filth of self-conceit.
Showing mercy, the Guru bathed me in the Lord's Nectar and all my vices and sins were dispelled.
Within the saint's mind abides the Lord master and the saint utters his Lord God's Name.
When the last moment arrives, then, becoming man's real Friend the Name protects him.
O Lord God Master, yea, Lord God of the universe, the saints sing Thy praises and meditate on Thee.
O Lord Master, the Saviour of slave Nanak, save Thou me, the sinking stone.
Kalyan 4th Guru.
The Lord God alone knows my inmost thoughts.
If some one backbites the Lord's saint before Him, his bidding the Lord believes not even a bit. Pause.
Abandon all else and serve thou thy Imperishable Lord, who is the most high and illustrious of all.
By God's service, death can spy not one, rather, it comes and falls at the feet of those who have realized the Lord.
Whomsoever my Lord wishes to protect, within his ears, he imparts sound understanding.
No one can reach up to him, with whose devotional service my Lord is pleased.
O man, behold thou the wonderous play of God, who, in a moment, distinguished the genuine from the counterfeit.
Therefore, the Lord's saint abides in joy. The men of pure mind meet with their God and those of evil mind regret and repent.
O my Beneficent God, the Lord Master, Thou are All-powerful, I ask for but one boon from Thee.
O Lord God, mercifully bless Thou thy slave Nanak with this gift that thine feet may ever abide within his mind.
Kalyan 4th Guru.
O Lord God, the Treasure of bliss, have Thou mercy on me, that I may sing Thine praises.
I ever repose my hope in Thee, O Lord. When shall Thou take me in Thy embrace?. Pause.
I am thy ignorant and silly child, O Lord, my Father; bless Thou me with Thy instructions.
The child errs and commits faults, every moment but still he is pleasing to Thee, O Father of the universe.
Whatever Thou give me, O Lord God, that alone I receive.
For me, there is no other place, where I can go to.
The saints, who are pleasing to God, unto them alone, God is pleasing.
The Luminous Lord shall blend their light with His own and thus both the lights shall merge together.
Becoming merciful God, of Himself shall make me love Him.
Slave Nanak has sought the refuge of the Lord's gate and He, the Lord, shall protect his honour.
Kalyan Bhopali 4th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
O Lord Master, the Primal Being and the Supreme God, Thou are the Dispeller of sorrow.
O God, the ocean of peace, from whom every of thine devotees begs, thou are a boat to cross the dreadful world ocean and the wish fulfilling jewel. Pause.
O Lord God, the support of the earth and the Master of the universe, Thou are merciful to the meek as also the knower of inner feelings.
They, who, by the Guru's instructions, meditate on the sire Lord God, the Enemy of ego and the Dispenser of emancipation, become free from fear.
They, who seek the refuge of the feet of the Lord of the world; those persons ferry across the dreadful world ocean.
God saves the honour of the saintly persons, O slave Nanak. The Lord of Himself showers His benediction of them.
Rag Kalyan 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
My Master, bless thou me with thy mercy.
That the black-bee of my mind may over and ever again remain attached with the honey of Thine lotus feet. Pause.
I have no concern with any other water, O God; bless Thou me, the pied cuckoo, with a drop of Thy Name-Nectar.
Without meeting with my God, I am contented not. Nanak survives by seeing His Lord's vision.
Kalyan 5th Guru.
Thy mumper, O Lord, asks and begs for Thy Name.
Thou, O Lord are the support of all, the Master of all and the but, they receive only that, What Thou are pleased to give.
Myriads beg alms at thy door. but, they receive only that, what thou are pleased to give.
O men, fruitful, gainful and successful is the Lord's vision, seeing and beholding which, sing I His praise.
Nanak, my quintessence is blended with the Lord's quintessence and my mind's jewel is pierced through by the jewel of His Love.
Kalyan 5th Guru.
Wondrous is the magnificence of my Beloved.
Ever refreshing and pleasing unto the mind is His glory. Pause.
Brahma, Shiva, adepts, silent sages and Indra, ask for the alms of the Lord's meditation and praise.
The yogis, divine men of reflection and the thousand hooded serpent, all meditate on the playful Lord.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice unto the saints who are the lasting associates of the Lord.
Kalyan 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
By believing in Thee, O Lord God, man is blessed with glory.
If man sees the Lord with his eyes, hears of Him with His mouth, then all his body limbs and soul are in bliss. Pause.
Here, there and in ten directions, the Lord is pervading, He is equally contained in the mountain and straw.
Wheresoever I see, there do I see the Supreme God Lord, My Spouse.
Associating with the saints, doubt and dread are dispelled. This is the Divine wisdom that Nanak utters.
Kalyan 5th Guru.
Who is the bliss giving melodious music and Divine knowledge,
the silent saints utter and hear His praises,  by joining the society of saints. Pause.
There, the saints reflect over the Lord's wisdom, worship God, give alms and, with their mind and tongue, lovingly utter the Name. This wise their sins are washed off.
Through the way of union with God, the food of gnosis, the knowledge of the Guru's instruction, and the Lord's meditations, the knowers of quintessence, remain incessantly merged in God's service.
Like warp and woof, they merge in the Lord's light and suffer not any pain and punishment, O Nanak.
Kalyan 5th Guru.
By What way can I meet with Him and what should I do to achieve this aim?
Some knowers of Shashtras fix their attention on the Divine knowledge, how should I bear the unbearable state?. Pause.
Of Vishnu, Shva, the adepts, the men of silence and Indra, of whose door should I seek the refuge?
With some are dominions, with others paradise, but, some rare one out of millions, is said to be blessed with emancipation.
Says Nanak, grasping the feet of the saint, I have obtained the Name Nectar.
Kalyan 5th Guru.
The powerful Lord is my compassionate friend and the Lord's of my life-breath.
God the Saviour delivers man of recurring births from wombs and destroys his sorrow and the noose of death in the Darkage. Pause.
I enshrine Thy Name within my mind and seek Thy refuge,
and Thou alone are my support, O my Merciful Lord.
Thou alone are the hope of meek orphan like me,
and Thy Name is the only aim of my mind, O Lord.
Without Thee, O Lord, I know Thee alone.
In all the ages, O Lord, I know thee alone.
O God, night and day, I enshrine Thee in my mind.
God, the Master of the Universe, is my only support, O Nanak.
Kalyan 5th Guru.
Within my mind and body, contemplate I, my Auspicious Lord.
When the Perfect Guru is highly pleased, then am blessed with everlasting peace and salvation. Pause.
All the affairs are resolved, by singing the praises of God, the Cherisher of the world.
Joining the saints society, when I meditate on the Lord, I am rid of the agony of death.
Take Thou pity on me, O my Lord, that, day and night, I may perform Thy service.
Slave Nanak seeks the protection of the Powerful and Perfect Luminous Lord.
Kalyan 5th Guru.
Wise and Inner knower is my Lord God.
Show Thou mercy unto me, O my Perfect God of gods, so that I am blessed with the Standard of Thy True and Eternal Name, O Lord. Pause.
Without Thee, O God, none else is powerful; my hope rests in Thee and mind leans on Thine might alone.
O my Master, Thou alone give to all hearts. I wear and eat that what thou give me.
Understanding, intellect, wisdom, glory, beauty, revelments, riches, honour,
all comforts, bliss and salvation are in the uttering of he Lord's Name, O Nanak.
Kalyan 5th Guru.
The refuge of the Lord's feet emancipate one.
The Lord's Name is the purifier of the sinner. Pause.
Associating with the saints, whosoever dauntlessly contemplates his God, death's myrmidon eats him not.
Salvation, secular success and various comforts, equal not they, the loving adoration of God.
Slave Nanak craves for the Lord's vision and shall not wander again in births and death.
Kalyan 4th Guru. Ashtpadis.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, is He attained.
O my Lord, hearing Thy beauteous Name, my soul is mightily pleased.
The Lord God's Name is an immortalising sweet ambrosia, which one in-drinks all-too spontaneously by the Guru's instructions. Pause.
As the fire is locked in the wood, but it is made manifest by the mortal who knows the way of rubbing the wood.
So is the light of the Lord's Name within all, but its quintessence if found through the Guru's teachings.
The body has nine doors but insipid is the relish of all the nine doors. It is in the tenth one, that the immortalising Nectar trickles.
Show Thou Thy mercy, compassion and Kindness unto me, O my Love, that I may in-drink the Lord's Name elixir through the Guru's word.
The body abode is the beauteous Township in which the business of the God's Nectar is transacted.
Precious, the most precious jewels and emeralds are attained through the True Guru's service.
Unfathomable and Inscrutable is the Lord, who is the brimful ocean of bliss. Through the true Guru, embrace thou, His loving adoration.
O Lord, show Thou mercy and compassion unto me, the meek sparrow hawk and pour into my mouth a drop of Thy Name.
To gladden, gladden my mind, O my Guru, bless thou me with the loving adoration on the loved, loved Beloved.
O my Lord, God, the All-pervading God, they, who are imbued with Thy love, ever tastefully in-drink in big draughts, Thy Name-Nectar.
If the gold of the seven continents and oceans of the earth be taken out and placed before them.
My Lord's slave desire it not. They beg their Lord. God for the grant of His Name elixir.
Ever hungry remain the apostate persons and mortals. Hunger, hunger they ever cry out.
They run, roam under about through the love of riches and cover a distance of lacs of miles.
Sublime are thou Lord God, Master's, yea, Lord God's saints. What praise can one attribute to them?
O Lord, take thou pity on slave Nanak and bless him with Thy Name, the like of which there is no other magnificence.
Kalyan 4th Guru.
My Lord, bless Thou me with the touch of the Guru, the philosopher's stone.
I was the meritless and exceedingly worthless rusted iron. Meeting with the True Guru, I am transmuted into an invaluable personality.
Everyone longs for paradise emancipation and elysium and ever rests all his hopes on them.
The Persons desirous of the God's vision ask not for emancipation. Obtaining His vision, their soul is satiated and comforted.
Highly powerful is the attachment of mammon and this attachment brands one with the black spot.
Detached and emancipated are the saints of my Lord, like the duck, whose wings are wetted not.
The fragrant sandal tree is girdled by the snakes; how can one reach and get to the sandal tree?
Drawing out the powerful sword of the Guru's gnosis and killing and destroying there with the poisonous snakes, in-drinks I the Name-Nectar.
Bringing and gathering wood, one stacks it in t heap, but, in a moment, the fire reduces it to ashes.
Similarly, the apostate persons has gathered very heinous sins, but, meeting with the Saint Guru, he applies fire to them.
Sublime are the saints, devotees and saintly persons, who enshrine the Lord's Name within their mind.
Seeing the saints, I have becomes happy, It is through the saints that the Lord God is seen.
The thread of an apostate is knotted with good many entanglements. How can the warp be weaved out of it?
His (cotton of) deeds yield no yarn and thread of virtue. So, associate thou not with the mammon-worshipper.
Sublime is the True Guru and the saints society, meeting and associating with whom, the Lord is meditated upon.
Within the mind are gems, jewels and emeralds, it is through the Guru's grace that one attain unto them.
Great and magnificent is my Lord Master. How can I unite in His union?
Nanak, the perfect Guru, unites man in the Lord's union and blesses him with the state of perfect bliss.
Kalyan 4th Guru.
O my beauteous all pervading God, I utter the Lord's Name alone.
Sublime are the saints, devotees and the saintly persons. Meeting with the saints, I am attuned to my Lord. Pause.
The world and all the creatures, that are there, their minds, ever wabble and wobble.
O Lord, mercifully and compassionately, unite Thou them with the saints and thus support the world, by giving them the support.
The dust is beneath the feet of all and, from beneath, it falls over all. Roll thou, therefore, in the dust of the saints feet.
Thiswise, thou shall become the most sublime, yea, the most sublime and the whole world shall place its head below thy feet.
The Guru-ward is blessed with the Lord's blessed and sublime light and the mammon comes and pays obeisance to him.
By the Guru's word, he cuts the teeth of wax (of compassion), bites and chews the hard iron(sin)and thiswise in-drinks the God's elixir.
The Lord God has shown great mercy unto me and I have met with the Guru, the saintly person.
The praises of the Lord's Name, I have spread all around and the Lord has blessed me with glory all the world over.
Within the mind of every saint, the devotee and the saintly person, is my Beloved Lord and he can lives not without seeing Him.
As the water fish bears love to water alone and without water, it bursts to death in a moment, so is my affection for the Saint-Guru.
Those, who have exceedingly bad luck, do not eat the dust of the feet of the saints.
The burning fire of their cravings is stilled not and they suffer punishment at the hands of the Righteous Judge.
Man may visit all the holies, observe fasting, perform sacred feasts, give generously in charity and destroy his body by wasting and dissipating it in snow.
But, heavier is the weight of the merit of contemplating the Lord's Name, through the Guru's instructions, In weight nothings can equal the weight of the Name's meditation.
Thine virtues, O Lord God, Thou alone know. Slave Nanak has sought Thy refuge.
Thou are the ocean of water and I am a fish of Thine Mercifully Keep Thou me ever with Thee.
Kalyan 4th Guru.
I worship only the All-pervading Lord's God.
Surrendering my soul and body, I place them all before Him and, through the Guru's teaching, implant I the ambrosial Divine knowledge within me. Pause.
The Lord's Name is the tree and virtues its branches. Picking and gathering up the virtues, I ever worship them.
The Luminous Lord is the llluminator of the human soul. With utter love, adore thou Him.
Immaculate in the entire world is the man of discerning intellect. Reflecting over and contemplating the Lord, he in-drinks the nectar.
Dedicating this soul to the True Guru and by the Guru's grace, I have attained unto the Name wealth.
Invaluable and supremely sublime is the Name diamond of the Lord. With this diamond the mind's diamond is pierced through.
Through the Guru's word, the mind becomes the jeweller, which then, assays God, the diamond.
As Butea frondosa plant becomes part and parcel of the Ficus religiosa tree; similarly, meeting with the saints' society, one becomes sublime.
The mortal, within whom, the fragrance of the Lord's Name abides, becomes the most sublime amongst men.
The body tree, does good many pure and immaculate deeds, ever puts on the green boughs of the Lord's meditation.
The Guru has instructed me, that faith is the flower and gnosis the fruit is the flower and gnosis the fruit of this tree and bliss the word with scent and fragrance.
The One Luminous Lord alone abides within my mind and the Creator-Lord alone is seen amongst all.
The One All-pervading soul is spread all over, Everyone places one's head under His feet.
The men without the Name look like nose-shorn persons, Gratingly, and gratingly are chopped off their noses.
The apostate persons are called the egoists, Without the Name, accursed is their life.
As long as there is breath and life in thy mind, that long, hurriedly and quickly, seek thou thy Lord's refuge.
O Lord, show Thou such mercy and Compassion unto Nanak, that he may ever wash the feet of Thine saints.
Kalyan 4th Guru.
O my All-pervading God, I ever wash the feet of Thy saints.
My Lord, show Thou such mercy unto me, that my sins be burnt down in an instant. Pause.
My Master, the meek alms-men are standing and begging at Thy door. Bless Thou with alms, those exceedingly desirous ones.
Save me and redeem, me, O Lord, I have sought Thy protection, Implant Thou within me, the Guru's instruction and Thine Name.
Very-powerful are lust and wrath in the body township. Getting ready ever wage I war with them.
Making me Thy own, save Thou me, O Lord, that, by the grace of the perfect Guru, I may drive them out.
Within me is greatly raging the war of sins. O my Lord, bless Thou me with the icy-cold Guru's word, that it may be quenched.
My body and mind are absolutely tranquillised and being rid of my malady, I now sleep in peace.
As the sun's rays pervade all the places, so is the Lord contained in all the hearts.
If man meets with the Guru, the saint of the saints, he attains the Name-Nectar and in drinks the quintessence, even while sitting in his own home.
God's slave so loves the Guru, as the she-ruddy goose loves to see the sun.
She watches, and keeps on watching all the night through and in-drinks Nectar when the sun shows his face.
The cur like mammon-worshipper is said to be very avaricious. He is filled with an excessive filth of evil-thoughts.
For his own self-interest, he talks much. What reliance can be placed on him?
I have sought the refuge of the society of the saints, and the devotees, through which I have found the Lord's elixir.
My Lord, bless Thou me, with the society of the supreme saints and devotees, who narrate Thine myriad virtues and do good to others.
O my Unfathomable, Compassionate and Beneficent Lord of grace, showering Thine benediction save Thou us all.
O Lord, Thou alone are the vital-breath of all the beings and the world. Sustain Thou me, Thy slave Nanak.
Kalyan 4th Guru.
O my all-pervading God, make Thou me, the slave of Thine slaves.
As long as there is breath in my mind, Thou make me eat the dust of the feet of the saints. Pause.
Shiva, Narad, Cobra King and the silent sages long for the dust of saints' feet.
Every house and abode, where the saints place their feet becomes sanctified.
Shed thou thy shame, renounce all ego and meet and live with the saints.
The will make thee shed the fear of the Righteous judge and extricate thee form drowning in the sea of poison.
They, who are parched by doubt are thoroughly dried up while standing. Meeting with the society of saints they blossom forth again.
Therefore make thou not even a moment's delay and go and fall thou at the feet of the saints.
The praise of the Lord's Name is an invaluable treasure, which God has deposited with the saint.
Whosoever accepts the Guru's word as true abiding, taking out this treasure, the Guru places it before him.
Hear and attend to, ye, brother, saintly persons, the Guru raises his arm and calls unto them.
If thou desire everlasting bliss, and happiness for thy soul, then enter thou the sanctuary of the True Guru.
If thou are blessed with great good fortune and are very virtuous, then implant the Lord's Name within thee through the Guru's instructions.
The love is riches is all too troublesome, in-drinking the Lord's Name-elixir crosses the world-ocean.
They, who are the great lovers of mammon or Maya, in mammon they putrefy.
Exceedingly gloomy and arduous is the path of spiritual ignorance and the mortal is loaded with the heavy load of self-conceit.
Nanak, the Beauteous Lord is pervading all over, Uttering, and reciting the Lord's Name, one is emancipated.
If the True Guru meets, then, enshrines he, the Name within the man's and he unites within the man's mind and he unites and meets with the Lord's Name.
There is but One God. True is His Name, creative His personality and Immortal His from. He is without fear, sans enmity, beyond birth and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace, is He is obtained.
Rag Parbhari Bibhas1st Guru. Chaupade
By Thy Name, O Lord, man is ferried across and by Thy Name, he is honoured and adorned.
Thy Name is the jewelry and the aim of the awakened mind.
Through Thy Name, O Lord, every one's Name is celebrated.
Without the Name, man gathers not honour ever.
Every other cleverness is all a false show.
Whomsoever, the Lord blesses with His Name, his affairs are accomplished. Pause.
Thy Name is my strength and thy Name my support.
Thy Name is my army and Thy Name my sovereign.
Through Thy Name, one is approved and is blessed with honour and glory.
By Thy grace, O Lord, one is stamped with Thine benediction.
By thy Name, mortal is blessed with equipoise and by Thy Name with Thy praise, O Lord.
Thy Name is Nectar, which purges man of the poison of mammon.
Through Thy Name, all the comforts come to abide in the man's mind.
Bereft of the Name, bound hand and foot, the world goes to the city of Yama.
Man's wife, mansion, home, dominion,
mind's merriments and wearing of pleasing garbs avail him not,
when the call comes from God, He then can make no delay in departing,
and whatever is untrue turns out to be false, O Nanak.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
O Lord, Thy Name is the gem and Thy grace the Light. In whichever mind is Thy Name, the Divine Light is there.
Darkness prevails in the dark world and, therefore, it loses all its merits.
This entire world is involved in sins.
O my Infinite Creator Lord, Thy Name alone and nothing else is the cure of all the ills. Pause.
O Lord, if in one may weight of the riches of millions and millions of the under-worlds and other spheres and compare with only Thy Name, the later will still weigh more.
O my Beloved, if there be another like Thee at the other end, then alone the worth of Thy Name can be evaluated.
Out of pain wells up pleasure and after pleasure comes pain.
The mouth, with which Thou are praised, what hunger can ever inflict that mouth?
Thou alone are unwise, O Nana. Sublime is the rest of the world.
The body, wherein the Name wells up not, miserable becomes that body.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
For whose sake Brahma uttered the Vedas and Shiva forsaken mammon.
For whose sake the adepts become recluses and whose secret even the gods found not.
O Sire, enshrine the Name of that True Lord in thy mind, with thy mouth, utter thou, that True Lord, thou shall swim across.
Enemy and pain shall come not near thee. Some rare indeed attain unto the Guru's instructions. Pause.
The World is make of the fire, water and air and these three are the slaves of the Lord's Name.
He, who utters not the Lord's Name, is like a thief, abiding in the fortress (body) of five desires.
If some one does a good deed to another, then he is greatly puffed up in his mind and heart.
But thou, O Lord, who blesses with so many virtues and goodness, regret not.
O Lord, they, who praise Thee, gather Thy Name's wealth in their then the death's courier summons him not for interrogation.
If some one pays homage to them, then the death's courier summons him not for interrogation.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
He, who has no form, no caste, no mouth and flesh,
meeting with the True Guru, I have attained unto that Immaculate Lord. I now ever abide in Thee, O my God.
O detached yogi, reflect thou on the quintessence in a state of equipoise,
whereby, thou shall not come into the world again. Pause.
He, who has no meritorious acts, no righteousness to his credit, nor meditates he on His Name through sacred rosary,
even he is blessed with the sublime wisdom and ultimately a vision of the Lord, through the refuge of the true Guru, the Saviour.
One who fasts not, observes not any religious discipline, nor utters God's Name;
even he need not worry for his good or bad plight, if he follows the true Guru's instructions.
He, who lives neither in hope, nor in hopelessness and has disciplined his mind and soul,
through the wisdom gathered from the Guru, O Nanak, his soul blends with Supreme soul ultimately.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
His utterance is approved in the Lord's Court,
who deems both poison and Nectar alike.
What should I say, O Lord, except that Thou are contained amongst all,
and that whatever happens, all that in Thy will. Pause.
The Divine Light becomes manifest unto him and he is rid of his self-conceit,
when the True Guru blesses man with the Name-Nectar.
In this Darkage, only that man's coming is deemed profitable,
who obtains honour in the True Court.
Uttering and hearing His praises man arrives at the House of the Ineffable Lord.
The mere words of mouth, O Nanak, are burnt to ashes.
Parbhati 1at Guru.
The man, who bathes in the ambrosial water of the Divine knowledge takes with him the merit of bathing at the sixty-eight holies.
The Guru's instructions are the gems and the jewels. The Guru's disciple, who serves him, obtains them, through search.
No pilgrim-station is equal to the Guru.
The ocean of contentment is contained in that Guru. Pause.
The Guru is the river, whence pure water is ever obtained, by which the filth of evil-understanding is washed off.
Finding the True Guru, man obtains perfect ablution, which makes him a God out of a beast and a ghost.
He alone is called the sandal-like Guru, who is imbued to the very bottom of his heart with the True Name.
By whose fragrance, the whole vegetation is perfumed, fix thou thy attention to His feet.
By the Guru's grace, wells up the spiritual life in one and by the Guru's grace, one arrives at the Lord's house.
Through the Guru, O Nanak, man merges in the True Lord and, through the Guru, he attains to his exalted state.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
By the Guru's grace, man dwells on the Lord's knowledge and, reading and studying it, gathers glory.
Being blessed with the Name-Nectar, man's self becomes manifest within himself.
O Creator-Lord, Thou alone are my Alms Giver.
I ask for but one boon from Thee, Bless Thou me, O Lord with Thy Name. Pause.
The five wandering thieves are held and the mind's self-conceit is stilled.
Sinful seeing and evil-thoughts flee away. Such is the Lord's Divine knowledge.
Bless thou me with the rice of continence and chastity, the wheat of compassion and the leafy plate of Thy meditation, O Lord.
Bless Thou me with the milk of good deeds and the clarified butter of contentment. Such are the alms, I ask to Thee, O Lord.
Make thou forgiveness and patience my milk-cow, that my mind's calf may easily in-drink the milk.
I ask for the dress of the Lord's praise and modesty and thiswise Nanak shall continue uttering the God's eulogies.
Parbhati, 1st Guru.
When none can withhold man from coming then, how can one hold him back from going?
He alone fully knows this mystery from whom mortal has welled up. When man realises the Lord, then merges he, in Him.
O Lord, wondrous are thou and wondrous is Thy will.
Whatever Thou does, that for sure comes to pass. No one can do otherwise. Pause.
Just as the buckets hung on the chain of the Persian wheel rotate, emptying one and filling the other.
So is this play of the Lord, He acts as is His wondrous glory.
Walking the way of Divine comprehension, man's vision is illumined and he turns his face away from the world.
Reflect over this in thy mind and see, O God's divine, as to who is the house holder and who the detached one.
He, who is the Lord of hope, surrendering it to Him, this man remains detached.
Whosoever worships Him, from whom he has sprung, O Nanak, approved is he, be he a householder or a renouncer.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
Whosoever binds with a bond the evil inclination, unto him I am a sacrifice.
He, who realises not the difference between evil and good, he strays from the path uselessly.
Utter ye, O man, the True Name of the Creator-Lord.
Then ye shall not be the visitor to this world again. Pause.
From high the Lord makes low and the low one He makes the sovereign.
They, who realise that All-wise Lord, they become perfect and approved in this world.
If any person goes astray, one should go to instruct him.
Some rare one understands this wise, that the Creator, of Himself, plays all the games.
Abandoning the worldly attachments, contemplate Thou thy Lord's Name in the early morn.
Supplicates Nanak, whosoever become the slave of the Lord's slaves, he wins and the world loses.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
The mind is an illusionist, the mind is a saunterer and the mind wings in the sky like a bird.
When the mind thief is over-whelmed, through the Guru's word, the township of the body flourishes and one is felicitated.
When Thou wish to save man, Thou save him and his capital remains in-tact.
Bless me with such a treasure, which is brimful with the gems of Thy Name,
my Lord, by the Guru's instructions, I repair to Thine feet. Pause.
The mind is a recluse, the mind is also an indulger and the mind is unwise and ignorant.
The mind is the giver, the mind is also the beggar and the mind is mastered through the Creator, the true Guru.
Such is the Lord's meditation, that subjugating the five demon through it, one attains unto the supreme bliss.
The One Lord is said to be manifest every heart, but, Him, no one can see.
The false one is cast upside down in the womb and without the Name, he loses his honour.
If such be Thy will and if Thou unite, O my Lord, then alone can I remain united with Thee.
The Lord asks not mortals caste and birth, so, find thou out the Lord's True Home.
That alone is man's caste and that his glory, as are the deeds, which he does,
Nanak, through the Lord's Name, man is emancipated and rid of the agony of birth the death.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
Even while awake, the blind man is being robbed, and yet, he is happy and gay.
Although the noose is round his neck, yet, he is bothering his head in the worldly affairs.
In hope he comes and in desire he departs.
The strings of his life are entangled and he is utterly helpless.
The ever-awake Lord, the life of the world, remains wakeful.
The Lord is the ocean of peace and the treasure of Name-Nectar. Pause.
The blind man sees not, cares not to understand what is told to him and he does evil deeds.
The Lord, of Himself, puts His love and affection in man and by His grace, He bestows him with glory.
With the dawn of each day, man's life is wearing off trice by trice and yet, the love of riches is permeating his mind.
As long as there is even a bit of duality in man and he is without the Guru, so long he finds no refuge and is drowned.
Day and night, the Lord looks after and takes care of His beings and awards them pleasure and pain in accordance with their past deeds.'
Unfortunate with their asks for the alms of the True Name, O Lord, bless Thou him, with this glory.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
If I keep mum, the world calls me a fool.
If I prattle much, then miss I thy love, O Lord.
Man's mistakes and shortcomings are assayed in Thy Court.
Without the name, how can there be good conduct?
Such is the world, that is being cheated by falsehood.
Dear unto me is the slanderer, who slanders. Pause.
He alone knows the way of life, who is slandered;
but though the Guru's word becomes manifest in the Lord's Court.
Within his mind, he realises the loftiness of the Name, the cause of causes.
On whomsoever is the God's grace he alone knows the virtuous way of life.
I am filthy while immaculate is that True Lord.
Calling oneself sublime, one does not becomes good.
An egocentric manifestly partakes of the great poison.
He, who gets resigned to Guru's will, he is absorbed in the Lord's Name.
I am blind, deaf, unwise, ignorant,
low, groveling and the vilest of the vile.
I, the poor one, possess the wealth of the love of the Lord's Name.
Sublime is this wealth. All other valuable are but poison and ashes.
Abandoning praise and dispraise of men, meditate I on the Name.
I pay homage to Him, who blesses me with His bounties.
Whomsoever Thou forgive, he is blessed with high caste and honour.
Says Nanak, He, the Lord, makes man utter His name.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
By eating more, man increases the filth and by wearing extravagantly, he disgraces his family.
By prating and prattling, he starts strifes. Know, thou, O man, that, without the Name, everything is but poison.
O father, my soul is caught in such a formidable trap,
that only by wading through the storm, it can be illumined by gnosis. Pause.
Men eat poison, utter poison and do the deeds of poison.
Bound down at the death's door, they are punished It is only through the True Name, that they can be emancipated.
As man came, so shall he depart, His deeds are writ and they must accompany him.
The egocentric loses even his capital and is awarded punishment in the Lord's court.
The world is unclean and Immaculate is the True Lord. So, contemplate thou Him, through the Guru's wore.
Rare are known to be such persons, within whom is the gnosis of God, the Enemy of ego.
Whosoever endures the unendurable, for him, incessantly trickles the immortalising
Name-Nectar, as is the love of fish with water, be Thou pleased, O Lord, to enshrine such a love within me for Thee.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
The songs, the tunes and clevernesses of mind,
the comforts, revelments and many commands,
the robes and relishes, find no place within my mind.
The true poise and peace abide in the Lord's Name.
What do I know as to what the Lord does and causes to be done?
Without the Lord's Name, naught is Pleasing to my body. Pause.
I have received all the joys of yoga, plays and relishes,
through true love and meditation of the Lord of the world.
My own affair and avocation is the Lord's praise.
Within my mind, contemplate I, my Lord, the llluminator of the sun and the moon.
The love of my dear Beloved, I have lovingly enshrined within my mind.
My spouse, the Lord of woods, is the Master of the meek.
Remembrance of the Name, night and day, is my alms-giving and fasting.
Deliberating over the Lord's quintessence, I have been satiated with the waves of bliss.
What power have I to utter the Unutterable Lord?
If Thou, O Lord, make me worship, then alone can I worship Thee.
If thou abide within me, then am I rid of my egotism and egoism.
Whom else should I serve, O my Lord? Without Thee, there is not any other.
Sweet and supreme elixir is the Guru's word.
Through such Nectar, I have seen my Lord within me,
Whosoever tastes this Nectar, he attains unto the perfect status.
He is satiated, O Nanak, and his body is comforted.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
Seeing the Lord within myself, my mind is pleased. None else can imbue my soul.
Day and night, He watches and looks after His beings. He alone is the Sovereign of all.
My Lord is dyed in an exceedingly great beauty.
My Soul-Charmer Beloved is merciful to the meek, very sweet and of deep red hue. Pause.
High up in the tenth gate is the well of Nectar. My mind draws out and in-drinks that Nectar.
By the Guru's grace, I have realised this wisdom that He alone, to whom the creation belongs, knows its secret.
When the ray of gnosis spreads across the heart lotus, it joyfully blossoms and the sun enters the house of the moon.
Attaining unto the Lord, by the Guru's grace, I have overcome death and nipped my desire in the very mind.
I am now imbued with the deep red colour of the Lord's supreme love and am rid of other hues.
Nanak, my tongue is imbued with the relish of that Lord, who is pervading all over.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
Divided in twelve sects, the yogis are ruined and so are the four and six sects of sanyaisies.
Similarly, the disciples of Gorakh, the mendicants in tatters and the plucked headed ones are loaded with the halter around their necks, bereft as they are, of the Lord's Name.
Perfectly detached are they, who are imbued with the Lord's Name.
And embracing love and affection for the One Lord, they seek to obtain the alms of His Name in their mind's hand. Pause.
The Brahmans read about strifes, do the ceremonial deeds and daily routine and make others perform rituals.
But without knowing the Lord, those egocentrics understand naught and, separated from God, they suffer pain.
They, alone who are blessed with the Guru's word are immaculate and are approved in the True court.
Night and day, they remain attuned to the jewel of the Name and remain merged in the True Lord all the ages through.
All the virtuous deeds, religious acts, purification, self-mortifications, devotions, austerities and pilgrimage to the holies abide in the Lord's Name.
Nanak, if the True Guru is met, he unites man with the Lord and then sorrow, sin and death flee away.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
The dust of the saints feet, the association of the pious persons and the Lord's praises are a boat to cross the world stream.
What can the poor and awestricken Yama do unto the Guru-ward, within whose mind, God, the Enemy of ego, abides?
May the life, bereft of the Lord's Name, be burnt down.
By the Guru's grace, contemplate and remember I my God, and tell the beads of the rosary of His Name and my mind enjoys His flavour. Pause.
Whosoever, by the Guru's instructions, is blessed with True bliss, how can I narrate his glory?
Searching by the Guru's grace, one finds the ruby, jewel and emeralds like wealth of the Lord's Name.
The mortal should rest his mind on the treasures of true gnosis and meditation and ought to remain attuned to the One Lord's holy word.
He should remain tranced in the Self-dependent, Hungerless, Immaculate and Fearless Lord.
His seven seas are then filled with the immaculate water of the Name and the inverted boat of his mind upturns and floats across.
His outgoing mind, he stops and stays and by the Guru's grace, merge he in the Lord.
He alone is the householder and ascetic, who through the Guru, knows his-self.
Says Nanak, he, whose mind is propitiated with the True Name, sees not another but the Lord.
Rag Parbhati 3rd Guru. Chaupadas.
There is but One God. By the true Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Some rare one realise, by the Guru's grace, that the Lord is contained in the Guru's word.
They, who are imbued with the Name, ever obtain peace and remain attuned to the True Lord.
O my fellow brethren, utter ye the Name of my Lord God.
By the Guru's grace, the mind becomes equipoised and night and day remains satiated with the Lord's elixir. Pause.
Day and night, ever perform thou thy Lord's devotional service. This is the only profit of this age, O brother.
The persons, who attune their attention to the True Name are ever immaculate and no filth attaches to them.
The peace-giving ornamentation, the True Guru has shown to me. Great is the greatness of the Lord's Name.
O brother, ever serve thou thy God, brimful are whose inexhaustible treasures, which run not short ever.
Whosoever the Creator Lord blesses with these treasures, into his mind, He comes to abide.
O Nanak, contemplate thou ever the Name, which the Lord has make manifest unto me.
Parbhati 3rd Guru.
O my Lord, bless Thou me, the meritless one, with Thy forgiveness and unite me with thyself.
Infinite are Thou and none has ever found Thy limit. By the Guru's instructions, Thou makes Thyself manifest unto one.
My Sire Master unto Thee I am a sacrifice.
Surrendering my body and soul, I place them before Thee, O my Lord and ever abide I in thine refuge. Pause.
O Lord God, keep Thou me ever in thy will and bless me with the glory of Thy Name.
Through the Perfect Guru, the Lord's will is known and one ever remains merged in equipoise.
The saints, who walk in Thy will, are pleasing to Thee, O Lord, Thou forgive them and unite them with Thyself.
Walking in Thy will, I have obtained everlasting peace and the Guru has quenched the fire of my desire.
Whatever Thou do, O Creator Lord, alone comes to pass, no one can do otherwise.
Out of the bounties, no other bounty is as great the Name and one attains unto it, through the perfect Guru.
Parbhati 3rd Guru.
They, who praise their doubt and duality are dispelled and through the Guru's word, they realise their God.
From within them, doubt and duality are dispelled and through the Guru's word, they realise their God.
My Sire God, Thou alone are my Sublime Lord.
Thee, I contemplate, Thee, I praise and from Thee gather I salvation and wisdom. Pause.
They, who by the Guru's grace, praise the Lord, they are blessed with the relish of the sweet and sublime Name-Nectar.
Ever sweet and never insipid is the Name-Nectar, By the Guru's instruction, reflect Thou on it.
He, alone, who has make it seem sweet unto me, knows its worth. Unto Him I am a sacrifice.
By the Guru's instructions, ever praise, I, my peace-giving Lord and, from within me, I have banished my self-conceit.
Ever Beneficient is My True Guru. Whatever one desire, that fruit, one obtains from him.
Nanak, by the Guru's word, man is blessed with the Name's glory and attains unto him True Lord.
Parbhati 3rd Guru.
O my Venerable Lord, Thou are Omnipotent to save those, who enter Thy sanctuary.
I can think of none else, as great as Thee. Neither there has ever been, nor will there ever be.
O Sire God, abide I ever under Thy protection.
As it pleases Thee, so save Thou me. O my Lord, in this lies Thine glory. Pause.
Whosoever seeks Thy refuge, O Sire Lord, him, Thou sustain him.
Death's courier can touch not him, whom Thou mercifully protect, O Venerable Lord.
True is Thy protection, O Sire Lord. It neither withdraws, nor decreases its beneficence.
Forsaking God, all those, who are attached to another's love, they continue coming and going.
They, who seek Thy refuge, O Praiseworthy Lord, they meet with no suffering and hunger.
O Nanak, ever praise thou the Name, that thou may merge in the True Lord.
Parbhati 3rd Guru.
So long as there is life in thee, O mortal, ever meditate thou, on thy Lord Master, through the Guru.
Through the Guru's word, the mind becomes immaculate and the mind's ego is stilled.
Fruitful is the life of the mortal, who is absorbed in the Name of God.
O my soul, hearken thou to the Guru's instruction.
The Lord's Name is ever peace-giving. Through it, thou shall easily in-drink the God's Name elixir. Pause.
Those, who realise their source, abide they, in their own home and all-too-spontaneously gather peace.
Through the Guru's word, blossoms their heart lotus and their ego, and evil-thoughts are eradicated.
Amongst all, the One True Lord is contained. Rare is the one, who realises it.
By the Guru's instructions, man's mind immaculate and he utters the Nectar-sweet quintessence of the Name.
God's Name ever abides in his mind and his mind-waves are clamed through the mind.
Ever am I a sacrifice unto my Guru, through whom, I have realised the all-pervading Lord.
Whosoever serves not the True Guru in the human birth, wastes he, his life in vain.
If God shows mercy, then, He leads man to the True Guru and then he easily merges in celestial bliss.
O Nanak, by perfect good fortune one is blessed with the glory of the Name and contemplates his Lord.
Prabhati 3rd Guru.
God, of Himself, has created the creation of many kinds and colours. Fashioning the world, the Lord has staged a play.
Creation the creation, He beholds it. He acts, makes others act and gives sustenance to all the beings.
In the Darkage, the Lord is pervading all.
The One Lord is fully-filling all the hearts. By the Guru's grace, the Lord God's Name becomes manifest. Pause.
The Lord's Name is imperceptibly pervading the Darkage and the Lord is fully-filling every heart.
The jewel of the Name becomes manifest within the mind of those, who run and repair to the Guru's refuge.
There are five sensory organs, whosoever overwhelms these five, he is blessed with compassion and contentment by the Guru's instruction.
Blest, blest, grand and perfect is that slave of the Lord, who, in His fear and love, sings the Lord's praise.
If some one turns his face away from the Guru and enshrines not the Guru's advice in his mind,
he may amass wealth and perform many rituals, but, whatever he may do, he must fall into hell.
The sole will of the One Lord prevails all over. The entire creation emanates from the One Lord.
Nanak, the supreme Guru unites man in the Lord's union. It is by the Guru's grace, that he goes and blends with the Lord God.
Parbhati 3rd Guru.
O my soul, praise thy Guru.
If perfect destiny is writ on thy face and forehead, then sing thou ever the praise of the God. Pause.
God alone gives the fare of the Name-Nectar.
Out of millions, rare is the one, who attains unto it,
he is the one, on whom He shows His mercy.
Whosoever enshrines the Guru's feet in his mind,
he is rid of pain and inner darkness,
and him, the True Lord unites with Himself.
Embrace thou love for the Guru's word.
Here and hereafter, this alone is thy support.
The Creator, of Himself, blesses man with the love of the Guru's word.
Whom the True Lord makes one to submit to His will,
he alone is an accomplished and wise saint.
Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto him.
Parbhati 4th Guru Bibhas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
By the Guru's instructions, I sing the Lord's praise with love and relish and my mind is attuned to the most-exalted Name.
Through the Guru's word, I in-drink the Immortalising Name-Nectar. Unto the Lord's Name, I am a sacrifice.
God, the life of the world, is my vital breath.
When the Guru ministered the Name through my ears, the Supreme Lord became pleasing unto my mind. Pause.
O brother saints, come and meet me, so that getting together, we may utter the Lord God's Name.
Bless ye me, with the bounty of the Lord's Name and instruct me as to by what means and how can I attain unto my Lord?
The Lord God abides in the saints society. Meeting with their association, God's virtues are known.
It is by great good fortune that one is blest with the saints congregation and through the great True Guru, one meets with the Lord.
I sing the praise of my Unfathomable Lord Master and, singing His praise, I am struck with wonder.
The Guru has shown mercy unto slave Nanak and, in a moment, has he blessed him with the gift of the Lord's Name.
Parbhati 4th Guru.
With the sunrise, the Guru-ward utters the Lord's Name and remembers he, the Divine gospel the whole night through.
My Lord has welled up the craving within me and I search ever my Lord God.
My soul is the dust, yea, the dust of the saints feet.
The Guru has implanted the Lord God's sweet Name within me and I dust the Guru's feet with my hair. Pause.
Dark are the day and night for the mammon worshippers, they are caught in snare of the love of riches.
The Lord God abides not in their mind even for an instant and a moment. Their every hair is bound, in many ways, with the debt of God.
Meeting the society of saints, one attains good understanding and wisdom and is released from the snare of ego and attachment.
God's Name and God seem sweet unto me and, through his word, the Guru has make me happy.
The Guru is my unfathomable Lord and I am his child, in his mercy, the Guru sustains me.
O Great Lord, the World-Cherisher, Nanak, Thy child is drowning in the dreadful ocean of poison. Mercifully save Thou him.
Parbhati 4th Guru.
When the Lord God shows mercy unto me, even for an instant, I sing His praise with utter joy.
Both the singer and hearer are emancipated who in-drink the God's Name-elixir; even for a moment, by the Guru's grace.
Within my mind is enshrined the Nectar of the Lord God Master's Name.
By the Guru's grace, I have attained the refreshing Nectar of the Name. The Nectar of the Lord God's Name, I now incessantly in-drink. Pause.
They, whose mind is permeated with God's love, their forehead is anointed with the pure frontal mark.
The magnificence of the Lord's slave is manifest all the world over, as is of the moon amidst the stars.
They, within whose mind the God's Name abides not, insipid are all their affairs.
Without the name, embellishments of men's body are as vain as that of a nose-shorn person, whose the Lord has make without o nose.
In every heart and each and all beings, the One All-pervading Lord Master, the King, is contained.
God has shown mercy unto slave Nanak and by the Guru's instructions, he now contemplates his God every moment.
Parbhati 4th Guru.
My Unfathomable and Compassionate God, the Lord Master has shown mercy unto me and I now utter His Name with my mouth.
I meditate on the Name of God, the Purifier of sinner and am rid of all my misdeeds and sins.
O my soul, utter thou the Name of the All-pervading Lord.
I sing the praises of the Lord, Merciful to the meek and the Destroyer of pain and by the Guru's instructions, gather the wealth of His Name. Pause.
In the hamlet or Township of the body abides the Lord and through the counsel, counsel of the Guru, the Lord God becomes manifest.
In the body pool, God's Name has become manifest and within my home palace, I have obtained my Lord God.
The men who wander in the wilderness of doubt, those perverse and foolish ones are pillaged and plundered.
They are like the deer, within whose navel abides the fragrant muck, but, who through doubt, roams and beats about the bushes.
Thou, O God, the Lord Master, are great and Unapproachable and Thy comprehension is unfathomable. Bless me with wisdom that I may attain unto Thee.
The Guru has placed his hand on the head of serf Nanak and he now utters ever the Name of His Lord God.
Parbhati 4th Guru.
My mind is in love with the Lord's Name and contemplate, I, my Lord, God, yea, the great Lord God Master.
God, yea, the Lord God has taken pity on me and the True Guru's word has become pleasing to my mind.
O my soul, moment, utter thou the Name of thy Lord God.
The perfect Guru has blest me with the gift of Lord's Name and the Lord's Name abides within my mind and body. Pause.
God dwells in the abode and palace of the body township and, by the Guru's grace, I dwell upon His meditation and praise.
In the world, here and hereafter God's slaves are embellished, their faces become bright and, by the Guru's grace, they are ferried across.
I am attuned to my Lord Master, the Fearless God and, through the Guru, I have enshrined the Lord within my mind, in a moment.
All the sins of millions and millions of births of his saint, the Lord washes off in an instant.
Thine saints, O Lord, are known through Thee. As they realise their Lord, they become supreme amongst men.
God, the Lord God has placed His ownself in His slave. As such, His slave and the Lord God are one and the same, O Nanak.
Parbhati 4th Guru.
The Great True Guru has implanted the Lord God's Name within me. Contemplating my Lord, I, the dead one, have sprung to life.
Blessed, blessed is the Great Guru, the Perfect True Guru, who, lending his arm, has pulled me, the drowning one, out of the ocean of poison.
O my soul, utter thou, the Name of thy Lord, who is worthy of worship.
By ever-new efforts, God is found not ever. Through the perfect Guru alone, the Lord God is attained. Pause.
The Name-Nectar of the Lord Master is the abode of bliss. In-drinking this Nectar, by the Guru's instructions, I have become happy.
Associating with the saints society, even the iron-dross is transmuted into gold. Through the Guru, man comes to enshrine God's Light in his mind.
They, who ever stray in ego, sins and avarice and are lured away by the love of sons and wife,
they serve not the saints feet ever and hence, those egocentrics are filled with dust.
Thine virtues, Thou alone know O Lord. Having grown weary, I have now sought Thy refuge.
As Thou deem fit, so save Thou me, O Lord, Serf Nanak is ever a slave of Thine.
Parbhati Bibhas, Partal, 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
O my soul, meditate thou on the Lord God's Name, the Treasure of bliss.
Thiswise, thou shall obtain honour in the Lord's court.
All those, thou remember their God, they are ferried across. Pause.
O my soul, attentively hearken thou the Lord God's Name.
Hear thou, O man, singing of the Lord's praise would earn thee the merit of bathing at the sixty-eight holy places.
Hearing the Name, by the Guru's grace, O man, thou shall be blessed with glory.
O my soul, meditate thou on thy Supreme Transcendent Lord.
Such meditation destroys millions of sins in an instant.
O Nanak, meet thou with thy Illustrious God.
Parbhati 5th Guru. Bibhas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
God created the soul and fashioned the whole body.
Marking the mortal from five elements, the Lord has blessed him with His very Light.
God has blessed him with the couch of earth and the water for use.
O man, serve thou the Word-Lord and forget Him not even for an instant.
O man, serve thou the True Guru, that thou be blessed the supreme status.
If thou remain unaffected in weal and woe, then alone shall thou find thy God, the Lord of Life. Pause.
He, who makes thee enjoy various dresses, dainties and relishes.
He, who has created for thee, mother, father and all the relatives.
He, who extends sustenance in the water and on the earth, O friend.
Serve thou, that Lord, ever and for ever more.
He is mortal's succourer at the place, where no body else can help him.
Millions of sins, He washed off in a moment.
He bestows gifts and regrets not.
Forgives He, once for all, and asks not the account again.
By pre-writ destiny, I have searched and found the Lord.
God, the World-Cherisher, abides in the society of saints.
Meeting with the Guru, I have come to Thy door,
bless Thou slave Nanak, with Thy vision, O Lord, the Enemy of ego!
Parbhati 5th Guru.
In the Lord's service, His slave attains glory.
His lust, wrath and avarice are destroyed.
For Thy slave, O Lord, Thy Name alone is the Treasure of bliss.
In the love of Thy vision, he sings Thine service.
To Thine slaves, O Lord, Thou Thyself has revealed the merit of Thy devotional service.
Snapping their bonds, Thou, O Lord, emancipated Thine slaves. Pause.
The saint, who is imbued with the Lord's love,
he is blessed with peace in the Lord's association.
He alone, who obtains the relish of the Lord's Name, understands it.
Seeing and beholding it, he is wonderstruck in his mind.
He alone is at peace and he alone is the most sublime of all,
in whose mind, He, the Lord, abides.
He is eternal and comes and goes not.
Night and day, he sings the praises of the Lord God.
All the men make obeisance unto him,
in whose mind abides the pervading Formless Lord.
O my Luminous Lord, show Thou mercy unto me,
so that Nanak be emancipated through the service of Thine saints.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
Singing the Lord's praises, the mind is enraptured.
The eight watches through, contemplate I my Illustrious Lord.
Remembering whom the sins are destroyed,
I bow to the feet of that Guru.
O dear saints, bless ye me with such an understanding,
that contemplating the Name, I may be emancipated. Pause.
The Guru, who has shown me the straight path to God,
and through whom, abandoning all else, I am enraptured with the Lord's Name.
I am ever a sacrifice unto that Guru,
through whom, I am blessed with the Lord's meditation.
The Guru, who ferries across the drowning mortal,
by whose grace, mammon, infatuates man not,
and who embellishes one in this world and the yonder.
Unto that Guru, I am ever a sacrifice.
From a most ignorant one, he has make me enlightened.
Ineffable is the story of the Perfect Guru.
The Guru himself is the supreme Lord, O Nanak!
By the greatest good fortune, God's service is obtained.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
Ridding me of all my woes, God has blessed me with peace and has make me utter His Name.
Showing His mercy, the Lord has engaged me in His service and has purged me of all my sins.
I, a mere child, seek the refuge of the Merciful Lord.
Erasing my demerits, the Lord has make me His own and my Guru-God has protected me. Pause.
The Lord of the world has become merciful and my sufferings and sins have been wiped off in a moment.
With every breath, contemplate I my Supreme Lord and, unto my True Guru, I am ever a sacrifice.
Inaccessible, Inapprehensible and Infinite is my Lord. His limit can be found not.
Meditating on our Lord, we earn profit and thus becomes rich.
Throughout the eight watches of the day, meditate I on the Transcendent Lord and sing His praises, ever and forever.
Says Nanak, my heart-desires have been fulfilled and I have attained to my Guru-God.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
Remembering the Name, all my sins are effaced,
and the True Guru has blessed me with the capital of the True Name.
Embellished are the Lord's slaves in His court,
and serving Him, the Lord's slaves look beauteous.
Utter thou, thy Lord God's Name, O My brother.
This wise all thine maladies and sins shall be destroyed and thy mind shall be delivered of the darkness of spiritual ignorance. Pause.
O my friend, the Guru has saved me from birth and death,
and I am attuned to the God's Name.
The suffering of millions of my births are over.
Whatever pleases Him, that alone is good.
I am ever a sacrifice unto the Guru,
by whose grace, I contemplate the Lord's Name.
Through the great good fortune is found such a Guru,
meeting with whom, one is attuned to the Lord.
Be merciful to me, O my Supreme Lord Master,
the Inner-knower of all hearts,.
Let me be attuned to Thyself through all the eight watches,
slave Nanak seeks Thy protection, O Lord!
Parbhati 5th Guru.
Showing His benediction, the Lord God, has made me His own,
and has blessed me with the meditation of His Name.
Singing the praises of the Word-Lord the whole day long,
my fears are dispelled and all anxiety is eliminated.
I am saved by repairing to the True Guru's feet.
Whatever the Guru, says, that alone is good and sweet unto me. I have forsaken my mind's wisdom. Pause.
Within my mind and body, abides that Lord God.
No strifes, sufferings and obstacles, now, befall me.
The Lord, now, abides within my soul, ever and forever.
With the love of the Name, the filth of sins is washed off.
Embracing love for the Lord's lotus feet,
man is rid of lust, wrath and ego.
I have now, known the way to meet my Lord.
Through loving adoration, my mind, is now, pleased with my God.
Hear thou me, O friend, O saint, O my illustrious intimate.
Unfathomable and Unweighable is the jewel of the Lord's Name.
Ever and forever and forever, sing thou, the praise of thy Lord, the Treasure of virtues.
Says Nanak, it is only through the supreme good fortune that the Lord is attained.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
They alone are rich, and they alone true Merchants,
who have established their credit in the Lord's court.
O my friend, in thy mind, contemplate thou, thy Lord God's Name.
By good fortune alone, the perfect Guru is attained and then pure and perfect becomes the man's way of life. Pause.
When man earns the profit of the Name, he is acclaimed,
and by the saints' grace, he sings the Lord's praises.
Fruitful is the advent and approved the life of him,
who, by Guru's grace, enjoys his Lord's love.
His lust, wrath and ego are wiped off,
and by the Guru's grace, he is ferried across; O Nanak!
Parbhati 5th Guru.
Perfect is the Guru and perfect is his power.
Immaculate for ever and aye is the Guru's word.
He, within whose mind abides the Guru's word,
all his pangs and pains flee away.
Imbued with God's love, his mind sings the Lord praises,
and bathing in the dust of the saints feet, he is emancipated. Pause.
By the Guru's grace, he is ferried across,
and is rid of his fears, doubts and sins.
Within his mind and body abide the Guru's feet.
Sans any fear, the saint repairs to the Lord's refuge.
Joy, poise, pleasure and peace he has in plenty.
Enemy and pain come not near him.
Deeming his as his own, the Perfect Guru saves him.
Contemplating the God's Name, he is rid of all his sins.
Illustrious are the saints, friends and the disciples of the Guru.
The Perfect Guru, makes them meet with the Lord.
The painful noose of their birth and death is snapped.
Says Nanak, the Guru covers their sins.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
The Perfect True Guru has blessed me with the Name,
and I have obtained joy, bliss, emancipation and eternal peace and all my affairs have adjusted. Pause.
The Guru's grace lotus feet abide in my mind,
and as such, I am rid of suffering, pains and false illusions.
Rising early, ever sing, thou, the Lord's holy word,
and all the eight watches through, contemplate thy God, O mortal.
Within and without, the Lord is in all the places.
Wherever I go, God, my succourer, is always with me.
Joining both my hands, I pray to me God,
that I, Nanak, may-ever meditate on Him, the Treasure of virtues.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
All-wise and Omniscient is my Supreme Lord Master.
Through the greatest good fortune, the perfect Guru is attained; unto his vision, I am a sacrifice. Pause.
Through the Guru's holy word, my sins are effaced,
and becoming worthy of contemplating the Name, I feel contented.
By the saints, society, my mind is illumined,
and the Lord's lotus feet abide within my mind.
He, who has created me, has saved me too.
The Perfect Lord is the Master of the Masterless.
Whomsoever, the Lord mercifully glorifies,
perfect become his deeds and conduct.
He ever sings the ever-new praises of the Lord.
He wanders not in eighty four lakhs of existences then.
Here and hereafter, he adores the Lord's feet.
Bright becomes his face, in the True court.
He, on whose forehead, the Guru, places his hand,
rare, out of millions, is such a slave, indeed.
He sees the Lord pervading the water the earth and the inter-spaces.
One is emancipated with the dust do that slaves, feet, says Nanak.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
A sacrifice am I unto my Perfect Guru,
by whose grace, I utter the Name of my Lord God. Pause.
I have been enraptured by hearing the Guru's holy words,
and all my involvements of the poisonous sins are past.
I am now in love with the True Name,
and meditate on my Lord, the God.
Contemplating the name, my heart is illumined,
and the Guru's word has come to abide within my mind.
My Guru is all-powerful and ever merciful.
Contemplating and remembering the Lord, I attain to perfect happiness, says Nanak.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
Uttering ever the Guru's Name, I am blessed with eternal peace.
The Master, merciful to the meek, has become compassionate unto me and He, of Himself, has make me utter His Name. Pause.
Associating with the saints' society my mind is illumined.
Uttering the Lord's Name, my hope is fulfilled.
I am blessed with complete salvation and peace has entered my mind.
Guru Nanak, has become merciful unto me and I now sing my God's praises.
Parbhati 5th Guru. Bibhas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
There is no other second place of rest,
without the God's Name.
Thiswise, man in blessed with all the successes and salvation,
and all his affairs are fulfilled.
Ever utter thou, the Lord's Name.
Through it, thou shall be rid of lust, wrath and ego and shall be attuned to the One Lord. Pause.
Attached to the Name, distress departs and whosoever seeks God's refuge, him He sustains.
He, who is so pre-destined, meets with the True Guru and falls not in the clutches of death's courier.
Night and day, meditate thou on the Lord God, by shedding your mind's illusions.
He, who is blessed with perfect good fortune, meets the Lord through the saints society.
Whomsoever, the Lord of Himself, protects, his sins of myriads of births are destroyed.
O slave Nanak, the Lord alone is thy mother, father, friend and brother, so, ever contemplate thou, thy Lord God.
Parbhati 5th Guru Bibhas Partal.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Utter thou, thy beauteous Lord Master's Name.
Thus shall thou be rid of strifes, sufferings, avarice, worldly love and the malady of ego. Pause.
Shedding thy self-conceit and repairing to the saints feet, thy soul shall be sanctified and thy sins shall be washed off.
Nanak, Thy child, knows nothing; protect Thou me, O Lord, my Mother as also my Father.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
I am blessed with the protection and support of the Lord's lotus feet.
Lofty, grand and infinite are Thou, O my Lord. Thou alone are over and above all. Pause.
God is the prop of life, the Destroyer of distress and the Giver of discerning intellect.
Within Thy mind, contemplate thou, the one Lord, the Saviour, who is worthy of obeisance.
Bathing in the dust of the saints feet, Nanak is blessed with good many comforts.
Parbhati Ashtpadis. 1st Guru Bibhas.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
The mad duality has maddened man's mind.
In false avarice, he has wasted his life.
Duality has clung to the mortals and no one has stemmed the rot.
Implanting the Name within him, the True Guru alone saves man from it.
Without controlling mind's desires, mammon is conquered not.
He, who has created this all-aught; he alone understands its mystery. Contemplating the Guru's word, one is ferried across the dreadful world ocean. Pause.
Amassing wealth, the kings become proud.
However, the prized wealth goes not with the mortal.
Of many a kind is the love of mammon.
Save the Name, no one is man's friend and comrade.
As is man's own mind, so sees he, the mind of another.
As is man's desire, so becomes his state of mind.
As are one's deeds, so is one attuned.
Seeking the True Guru's advice, man finds the house of peace.
Singing and hearing temporal music, man's mind is attached to duality.
Within him is deceit and he suffers great pain.
Meeting with the true Guru, he is blessed with the right understanding,
and them he remains attached to the love of the True Name.
Through the True Name, he practices truth,
and sings the Guru's holy true word and the Lord's praises.
When, even while abiding in his own home, the mortal obtains the immortal status,
then alone is he blest with glory in the True Court.
Without serving the Guru, one can meditate not on God,
even if one may make good many efforts.
If, through the Name, man rids himself of his ego and I am ness,
then, the Immaculate Name comes to abide in his mind.
In this world, sublime, is the practise of the Lord's Name.
Without the Name, all else is the darkness of worldly love.
Through the Guru's holy word, man keeps the Name enshrined in his mind.
Through the Guru's holy word, man obtains sublime understanding and the door of salvation.
Without God, the Seer, there is no other Creator.
The True Lord, of Himself, is Supremely Pretty and Infinite.
Through the Lord's Name, one is blest with the sublime state of bliss.
Nanak, some rare one searches and finds the Lord.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
Over the whole world is stretched the love of worldly valuables.
Seeing a beautiful woman, the man is overcome with lust.
With his sons and gold, man increases his love.
Man deems everything as his own, but, he owns not the One Lord.
So I worship with the beads of a rosary of God,
that rising above weal and woe, I practise the wonderous service of the Lord. Pause.
O Treasure of virtues, I know not Thy limit.
Through the True Name, I have merged in Thee.
Thou of Thyself, has created coming and going.
They alone are the true saints, who fix their mind on the True Lord.
The gnosis and meditation of the Detached God of men,
can not be known without meeting the True Guru.
Lord's Light permeates all heart-pools.
I am a sacrifice unto God, the Embodiment of bliss.
By the Guru's instructions, man is blessed with the Lord's love,
and meditation and, through the Name, ego is burnt down from within him.
The wandering mind is restrained and kept in its place,
by enshrining the Name in the heart.
The intoxicating wondrous plays of those come to an end,
who accept the Guru's teaching and are attuned to the One Lord.
Seeing the Lord contained in the water and fire, I have stilled my ego.
He alone realises the Lord, who is very fortunate.
Serving the True Guru, doubt is dispelled.
Attuned to the True Lord, man remains awake night and day.
He knows the Lord alone not any other.
Serving the Peace-giving Lord, one is rendered immaculate.
Reflecting on the Name, man's mind is accustomed to serve others.
Stilling one's ego, one is deemed to have practised worship, penance and self-mortification.
When man heart the Lord's Name, he becomes emancipated in life.
Through such a true way of life, he is blessed with eternal peace.
The Bliss-giving Lord is the Dispeller of sorrow.
I can think not of serving any other.
Placing before God, my body, mind and wealth,
says Nanak, I have partaken of the supreme elixir of the Lord.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
Making the still of the circuitous chord, whosoever practises the inly-washing, inhalation, exhalation and suspension of breath;
without the True Guru, he obtains not right understanding and straying in doubt, he is drowned to death.
The blind one is soiled, yea so soiled and defiled, that howsoever he washes himself, mind's filth departs not ever.
Without the Name, vain are all deeds, like those of the conjurer who deceives men through illusions.
The merit of six religious rites are contained in the Name of that Immaculate Lord.
Thou, O Lord, are an ocean of virtues and in me are the demerits alone. Pause.
The pursuit of worldly affairs, is the sinful act of an evil-intellected person.
The unwise one makes a show of his self conceit and realises not the Lord's service.
In the egocentric's mind is the desire of fascinating riches and wasteful in his speech.
False is the ablution of the sinner and vain are his religious rites and decorations.
False is the wisdom of the mind and its deeds give rise to useless strifes.
In the false one is self-conceit and he obtains not the relish of the Lord's Name.
Insipid is the flavour of anything else one may do, save the practice of the Name.
Associating with the villains, man is ruined. Poisonous is their speech and vain their life.
O men, invite not your death by straying in doubt.
Serving the True Guru, ye shall ever by in bliss.
Without the True Guru, no one is emancipated.
The man comes, goes dies over and over again.
This body wanders in three dispositions.
It is afflicted by sorrow and suffering.
Serve thou Him who has no mother and father.
This wise, desire and self-conceit shall depart from within thee.
Wherever I see, there I see that Lord.
Without meeting with the True Guru, one is emancipated not.
Enshrine thou the True Name in thy mind. This alone is the sublime deed.
Ruinous are all other hypocrisies and worships.
When one is rid of duality, then alone one realises the Name.
And, within and without, known he the Lord as but one.
This alone is the sublime counsel and instruction.
Being engrossed in duality, ashes fall on one's (head) or (forehead).
To Praise the Lord, by the Guru's instruction, is the sublime deed.
In the saints, society, dwell thou on the Lord's virtues and Divine knowledge.
Whosoever disciplines his mind, he realises the secret of death in life.
O Nanak, through His grace, the Gracious Lord is recognised.
Parbhati 1st Guru. Dakhni.
Ahalya was the wife of Gotam, the penitent, Seeing her Indra was fascinated.
When he got a thousand marks or vulva on his body, then did he regret in his mind.
O brother, no one knowingly strays from the path.
He alone strays, whom God, of Himself, misleads and he alone is enlightened, whom He enlightens. Pause.
King Harichand, the Lord of land, knew not, even he, the worth of the writ on his forehead.
Had he known, that it was an error, why should he have given alms and why should he have been sold in the market?
The Lord, in the form of a dwarf, pretended to ask for two and half karams of land.
If king Bal had recognised the form, why should he have gone to the underworld and why should he have been deceived?
Vyas instructed and taught Jenmeja, the king to refrain from doing three things, riding a horse, bringing home a fairy and accepting her word.
He performed sacred feast and put to death the eighteen Brahmans. By trying to erase it, one can erase not the writ of the past deeds.
I reckon not accounts and realise the Lord's will and I talk with lovable disposition.
Whatever may happen, I will continue to praise Thee, my Lord. Thy glory alone is manifested everywhere.
The Guru ward remains detached and filth attaches to him not ever. He ever abides in the Lord's refuge.
The unwise egocentric contemplates not his Lord in time; overtaken by pain regrets he.
The Creator, who has created this universe, does everything Himself and He makes others do.
O God, ego leaves not the man's mind. Falling in ego, he is wasted away.
Every one commits error, only the Creator, Himself, errors not.
Nanak, emancipation is obtained, through the True Name. Some rare one, by the Guru's grace, is freed of the bonds.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
Uttering and hearing of the Name is my support,
and I am, now, rid of the worthless engagements.
As an egocentric loses his honour in duality,
unlike him, without the Lord's Name, I love not any other.
Hear thou, O my blind, foolish and ignorant soul.
Of incoming and going, thou are ashamed not. Without the Guru, thou shall continue to be drowned over and over again. Pause.
The love of riches ruins this soul.
When the Lord's will is so ordained, then, before whom should I cry out?
Some rare one realises the Lord, through the Guru's grace.
Without the Name, man is emancipated not.
The mortal wanders, strays and staggers in the eighty-four lacs of existences.
Without knowing the Guru, he is caught in the Yama's noose.
This mind in a moment flies up to sky and in another moment sinks into the underworld.
It is released only by contemplating the Lord's Name, by the Guru's grace.
When the Lord summons the mortal, he can delay not.
Whosoever dies to the self through the Guru's word, he lives in peace.
Without the Guru, no one obtain understanding.
He, the Lord, of Himself, is the Doer and the Cause.
If man's inner strife is ended, he then sings the Lord's praise,
and through the perfect True Guru, merges in the Lord.
Then alone this wobbling mind becomes equipoised.
And then, man does and practises the deeds of the True way of life.
If man's mind is unclean, how can he be pure?
Rare is the One, who washes off his inner filth with the Name.
By the Guru's grace, some rare one practises the truth;
then cease and stop one's comings and goings.
He, who eats and drinks the Lord's fear, is blessed with sublime peace,
and associating with the God's saints, he is ferried across.
Imbued with love, he utters and makes others utter the truth.
To recite the Guru's word, is the sublime pursuit.
Whosoever deems God's praise to be his way of life, faith, honour and worship,
he burns off his lust and wrath in the fire.
When he in-drinks the Lord's elixir, then his soul is imbued with it.
Prays Nanak, besides the Lord there is not another.
Prabhati 1st Guru.
Utter thou thy Lord's Name and that is thy mind's worship.
Reflect thou on the Guru's word and think not of another.
The One Lord is contained in all the places.
I see not another; to whom should I make an offering?. Pause.
My soul and body I surrender before Thee and my life is at Thy disposal, O Lord.
I supplicate Thee, O Lord, Thou keep me as Thou will.
True is the tongue which is delighted with the God's Name-elixir.
Entering the Lord's refuge, man is released by the Guru's instruction.
My Lord has created the religious deeds.
The glory of His Name, He has placed over and above such deeds.
In the power of the True Guru, are the four cardinal boons;
when man's desire for the three (faith, wealth and success) is stilled then he is blessed with fourth (the emancipation).
They, whom the true Guru has blest with salvation and meditation,
become sublime, realising the God's status.
They, whom the Guru imparts understanding, their mind and body are refreshed.
Who can appraise the worth of those, whom the Lord has glorified?
Says Nanak, the Guru has imparted this understanding unto me,
that without the Name no one is ever emancipated.
Parbhati 1st Guru.
Some, the perfect Guru-God forgives and their make, he makes manifest.
Imbued with the God's love, they are blessed with the eternal true bliss. Their distresses are dispelled and they obtain honour.
False is the cleverness of the evil-intellected person.
This cleverness takes no time to disappear. Pause.
Sorrow and pain cling to the egocentric. The Sorrow of the egocentric departs not.
By the Guru's grace, the Blesser of weal and woe is realised. Whosoever seeks Lord's refuge, him, He blends with Himself.
The perverse persons can heartily perform not the Lord's service. Those crazy ones putrefy in self-conceit.
This mind in a moment files to the sky and in a moment sinks to the nether-world, so long as it realises not the Lord's Name.
The world is gone hungry and thirsty and, without meeting with the true Guru, it is satiated not.
All-too-spontaneously meeting with the Lord, mortal is blessed with peace and goes to the Lord's Court wearing the robe of honour.
Immaculate is the Guru's word, through which one sees the Court of the Lord, who, of Himself, is the only knower and seer of everything.
God Himself is the Divine, who assays the truth and, O Himself, understands the state of salvation.
Making the water waves, fire and air and then joining the three together, the Creator has created the world.
The Lord has blessed them with such power and cleverness, that He has tied and bound down each in His command.
In this world, rare are such persons, assaying whom, the Lord consigns to His treasury.
They rise above caste and colour and do away with worldly love and avarice.
They, who are imbued with the Lord's Name, are like the pure places of pilgrimage and they are rid of the ailment and filth of ego.
Nanak washes the feet of those, who by the Guru's grace, love their True Lord.
Parbhati 3rd Guru. Bibhas
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
See thou by the Guru's grace, that the God's mansion is (within) or (with) thee.
God's mansion of found through the Name, so contemplate thou the God's Name.
O my soul, being imbued with the Lord's Name bliss is obtained.
True is the God's devotional service, true is the God's mansion and True is the glory, that becomes manifest through God. Pause.
This body is the Lord's mansion wherein is revealed the jewel of Divine comprehension.
The egocentrics know not at all and say that within mortal is not the God's mansion.
God's palace, the Sire God has created and He keeps it embellished in His will.
One does only according to the predestined writ is; no one can erase that writ.
Contemplating the Lord and loving the True Name, man is blessed with bliss.
God's palace is embellished with His Name, It is an invaluable fortress of gold.
This world too it the Lord's mansion. Without the Guru, there is inky darkness in it.
For the sake of another's love, the blind and unwise egocentrics worship the Lord.
Where man is called to account, there go not the body and caste with him.
They, who are imbued with truth, are saved. Miserable are they, who bear love to another.
Within the God's mansion is the Treasure of the Name, but the foolish brutes know it not.
By the Guru's grace, I have realised this and now I keep the Lord enshrined in my mind.
They, who are imbued with the love of the Name, know the Guru's word, by the Guru's grace.
Pure, immaculate and blotless are those men, who merge in the God's Name.
God's palace is also the God's shop, which He keeps embellished with His Name.
In that shop is the merchandise of the one Name, with which the Guru-wards decorate themselves.
This iron dross like mind is within the Lord's mansion and it is lured by duality.
Meeting with the Guru, the philosopher's stone, it is transmuted into gold and then its worth can be told not.
Within the God's palace, abides God. He is contained amidst all.
Dealing with God, through the Guru, O Nanak, the true merchandise is purchased.
Parbhati 3rd Guru.
The persons, who are ever awake in the Lord's fear and love, remain vigilant and rid themselves of the filth of self-conceit.
They ever remain wakeful and keep their home whole by beating and driving away five thieves from it.
O my soul, by the Guru's grace, meditate thou on the Lord's Name.
O my soul, do thou only those deeds, which lead thee on to thy Lord's path. Pause.
By the Guru's grace, celestial melody wells up and one's within is rid of the pain of ego.
The Lord God's Name abides in one's mind and one easily sings the God's praises.
They, who by Guru's instruction, keep the Lord enshrined in their mind, beauteous look their countenance.
Here and hereafter, they abide in immense bliss and contemplating their Lord God, they are ferried across.
In ego, man can remain not awake and his devotion to God is not accepted.
The egocentric finds not refuge in the Lord's Court and he does deeds involved in duality.
Accursed is the food and accursed the dress of those. who bear love to worldly attachments.
They are the worms of ordure and sink and ordure, In death and birth they are wasted away.
They, who meet with their True Guru, unto them, I am a sacrifice.
In their association, I remain united and through the True Name, shall merge in the True Lord.
Through perfect destiny, the Guru is attained to. by no other effort, can one obtain him.
Through the True Guru, wells up gnosis and through his instructions, ego in burnt down.
O my soul, hasten to thy God's refuge, He is capable of everything.
O Nanak, forget thou not the Lord's whatever He does, that alone comes to pass.
Bibhas Parbhati 5th Guru. Ashtpadis.
There is but One God. By the true Guru's grace, is He obtained.
The mother, father, brothers, sons and wife.
Associating with them, man pecks the fare of pleasures.
The mind is entangled in the sweet worldly love.
The purchasers of the Lord's virtues, are the mainstay of my vital-breath.
My Unique Lord is the knower of hearts.
He alone is my support and He alone my protection. He, the Great Lord Master, is over the head of all the kings. Pause.
I have broken off with the deceitful mammon she-serpent.
The Guru has told me, that she is false and fraudulent.
From her countenance, she seems sweet, but she tastes bitter.
With the Lord's Name-Nectar, my soul, is satiated.
With avarice and worldly love, I have sundered my ties.
The merciful Guru has rescued me from them.
These cheats have laid waste many homes.
The compassionate Guru has saved and protected me.
I have no dealings with lust and wrath,
ever since I have heard the Guru's instruction in my ears.
Wherever, I see, there I see these most villainous goblins.
My Guru-God, has saved me from them.
I have made widows of ten sensory organs.
The Guru has told me, that these relishes are like the fire of sins.
Their associates go to hell.
Attuning to God, the Guru has saved me.
I have abandoned all counsels with ego.
The Guru has told me that in ego man becomes foolish and obstinate.
This ego is homeless and attains not home ever.
Attuning me to the Lord, the Guru has saved me.
Unto these people, I have become a stranger.
Within one home these two can be contained not.
Clinging to the Guru's skirt, I have come to the Lord.
O my Omniscient Lord, do Thou, now, justice unto me.
The Lord addressed me smilingly and pronounced His judgement.
All the demons, He yoked to my service.
That thou are the Master and this entire home belongs to thee,
Says Nanak, the Great God has given this decision.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
Within man's mind is wrath and excessive self-conceit.
He performs worship even with great ostentation.
Taking bath, he makes religious marks on his body,
but the filth of his mind departs not ever.
In this way no one has ever found the Lord.
He paints Vishnu's marks on his body, but, his mind is lured by riches. Pause.
He commits sins under the influence of five demons.
Bathing at the holy places, he says that all his sins have been washed off.
He then commits sins again without any fear.
The death's courier binds the sinner and takes him to his city.
Putting on tinkling small bells he plays cymbals,
but within his mind is deception and he wanders like demon.
By destroying his hole, the serpent is killed not.
The Lord, who created thee, knows all things.
Thou perform fire-penance and wear ocher-colour robes.
Smitten by calamity, thou run away from home.
Leaving thy country, thou wander abroad.
However, the five pariahs, thou has brought with thee.
Thou has split thy ears and thou beg (steal) crumbs.
Thou beg from door to door and fail to be satiated.
Thou has abandoned thy own wife and thou glance with evil eye on another's woman.
Wearing religious garb, the Lord is attained not and one becomes very miserable.
Man turns taciturnist and speak not.
Within him is desire and he is make to wander in species.
Abstaining from corn, his body suffers pain.
He realises not the Lord's will and is engrossed in worldly love.
Without the True Guru, no one has attained unto the supreme state of bliss.
If you wish, ask (search through) all the Vedas and Simritis.
The perverse person does useless deeds.
They are like the house of sand, which can stand not.
Unto whomsoever the Lord of universe become merciful,
he puts his mind to the Guru's word.
Rarely a saint is seen out of millions.
In his association, one is ferried across, says Nanak.
If one has good destiny, then alone obtains the sight of such a saint,
that one saves himself and he also saves his entire family as well. Pause Second.
Parbhati 5th Guru.
Contemplating the Name, all the sins are erased,
and the account papers of the Righteous Judge are torn off.
Meeting with the saints' society, I have attained the Lord's Name-elixir,
and the Transcendent Lord has entered into my mind.
Meditating on the All pervading Lord God's Name, I have obtained peace.
Thine slaves, O Lord, seek the refuge of Thine feet. Pause.
My darkness of spiritual ignorance has been dispelled,
the Guru has shown me the door of salvation and my comings and goings are ended.
With the Lord's loving-adoration my soul and body are ever imbued.
Then alone could I realise my Lord when the Lord make me realise Him.
He, the Lord, is contained in all hearts.
Without Him, there is not another second.
He has effaced my antagonism, opposition, dread and doubt,
and the very soul of virtues, the Lord, has done the greatest good.
He has pulled me ashore out of the very strong currents.
I was separated from the Lord for many lives,
He has now united me with Himself.
My Lord has redeemed me with His grace, as I contemplate on my Lord's Name,
instead of worship, penance and self-mortification.
Bliss, peace and salvation abide at the place, where the Lord Master's slaves dwell.
The Lord Master is pleased with me,
and my disharmony with Him of the many births has ended.
Burnt offerings, gratuitous feasts, penance with body reversed, worship,
and taking bath at millions of pilgrim places,
equal not the enshrining of the Lord's lotus feet in the mind even for a moment.
Meditating on the Master of the Universe, all the affairs are resolved.
The highness of the high is the Lord's station.
God's salves fix their attention on the Lord.
I long for the dust of the slave of the Lord's slaves.
Brimful with all powers is my Beloved Lord.
The Loved Lord, my Mother and Father, is ever near me.
O my Friend and Intimate, Thou alone are my mainstay.
His slaves, the Lord takes by the hand and makes them His own.
Nanak lives by meditating on his Lord, the Treasure of virtues.
Bibhas Parbhati. The hymns of Sire Saint Kabir.
There is but One God. By the True Guru grace He is obtained.
My fear of birth and death has now ended,
as the Lord has manifested His love for me.
The Divine Light has darned and my darkness is dispelled,
meditating on Him, I have obtained the jewel of the Lord's name. Pause.
Where there is bliss, pain flees away there from.
The jewel of my soul is absorbed in the love of the quintessence of everything, the Lord.
Whatever occurs, that is in Thy will, O Lord.
Who-so-ever understands thiswise, he merges in the Lord.
Says Kabir, my sins have been obliterated,
and my soul has merged in God, the Life of the world.
Parbhati.
If God, abides only in the mosque, then to whom else does the rest of the country belong?
According to Hindus, the Lord's Name abides in the idol, but, I see not truth in both.
O my Lord God, I live by Thy Name.
O my master, show Thou mercy unto me. Pause.
The God of Hindus dwells in the southern land and the God of Muslims has His seat in the west.
Search thou in thy mind, for this alone is the only abode and seat of thy God.
The Brahmans yearly perform twenty-four fastings, on the eleventh day of the light and dark halves of the lunar month and the Qazis fast in the mouth of Ramzan.
The Muslims put aside eleven months and deem the treasure to be in one alone.
What avails the Hindus to have bath at Jagan Nath is Orissa and how the Muslims gain by bowing their heads in mosque?
With deception in the heart what avails it to say prayers and go to Mecca, pilgrimage?
So many women and them, Thou has created, O Lord. All these are Thine manifestations.
Kabir is the child of the Lord God and deems all the Gurus and prophets as his own.
Says Kabir, hear ye, O men and women, seek ye the sanctuary of the One Lord.
O mortals, utters ye only the Lord's name, then alone shall ye be ferried across, for sure.
Parbhati.
Firstly God created light and then by His Omnipotence, made all the mortals.
From the One light has welled up the entire universe. Then who is good and who is bad?
O men, my brethren, stray ye not in doubt.
Creation is the Creator and the creator is in Creation. He is fully filling all places. Pause.
Clay is but the same, but the Fashioner has fashioned it in various ways.
There is no fault with the vessel of clay, nor is there any fault with the potter.
He, the One True Lord, is a midst all and it is in His will that everything is done.
Whosoever realises the Lord's will, he alone knows the One Lord and He alone is said to be His slave.
The Lord is invisible and can be seen not. The Guru has blessed me with sweet molasses of His Name.
Says Kabir, my doubt has been dispelled and I now see the Immaculate Lord every where.
Parbhati.
Say not that the Vedas and Muslim books are false. False is he, who reflects not on them.
When thou say that one God abides in all, then why kill thou a hen?
O Mullah, say thou, if this is the God's justice?
The mind's doubt is dispelled not. Pause.
Thou seize and bring a living being and kill its body. Thou has merely killed the clay and not the soul.
Its imperishable soul is attached to another body. Say then, what has thou slaughtered.
And, What is the use of the purification of thine hands, feet and mouth and the washing of thy face and What use thy head's prostration in the mosque?
What avails thee to say prayer and to go the pilgrimage of Mecca, when there is malice in thy mind?
Thou are impure and understand not the pure Lord. His mystery thou know not.
Says Kabir, thou has missed paradise and thy soul is reconciled with hell.
Parbhati.
O God, the Primal and all-pervading Master, thou are the mine of light. Hear Thou, My present adoration.
The adepts, in their trance have found not Thy limit. They continue to cling o Thy asylum.
O brother, worshiping the True Guru one is blessed with the present adoration of the Immaculate Lord.
Standing at His door, Brahma reads the Vedas, but he can see not the Unseeable Lord. Pause.
With the oil of truthfulness and the wick of the Lord's Name, I have made the lamp to illumine my body.
Applying the Light of the Lord of the World, I have lit the lamp. The Omniscient Lord alone knows this mystery.
The celestial strain of the five musical instruments resounds within me and I abide ever with the Lord of the world.
O Formless and Detached Lord, Thy slave Kabir, performs such a worship of Thine.
Parbhati The hymns of Sire Saint Name Dev.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
The state of the mind, the mind alone knows and narrate it I before the inner-knower.
I utter the name of God, the Searcher of Hearts, then, why should I be a afraid of any one?
My mind is pierced through by the love of Lord Master.
My Lord is contained in all the places. Pause.
The mind is the shop, the mind the township and mind the grocer.
The mind abides in various forms and wanders through the world.
When the mind is imbued with the Guru's word, duality is easily effaced.
All are subject to the Lord's command and He, of Himself, issues commands. The Fearless Lord regards all alike.
The man who realises and contemplates the Sublime Person, brimful with gnosis is his speech.
Says Nam Dev, within my mind, I have attained the invisible and wondrous Lord, the life of the world.
Parbhati.
The Lord was in the beginning, commencement of ages, yea, the commencement of ages and all the ages through; His limit is known not.
The Lord is contained amongst all, this way is His form described.
When His name is repeated, the Master of the World becomes manifest.
My Omnipresent Lord is the Embodiment of bliss. Pause.
It is from the sandal tree, that pleasant perform attaches to the other forest trees.
God, the source of all, is like the sandal tree, through whom the base wood becomes sandal.
Thou, O Lord, are the philosopher's stone and I am like iron. In Thine association I have becomes gold.
Thou are Merciful, Thou are jewel of the jewels, Name Dev and merged in Thee. O True Lord.
Parbhati.
The Unlineal God has created a play.
The Transcendent Lord is hid in every heart.
No one knows the glory of the soul's Light.
Whatever I do, that is known to Thee, O Lord. Pause.
As a pitcher is produced from clay,
so is everything produced from the Loved and Luminous Creator Himself.
The mortal's very deeds become entanglement for his soul,
he himself is responsible for whatever he does.
Prays Name Dev, whatsoever this soul craves for, that it attains.
Whosoever, ever abides in the casteless Lord, he becomes immortal.
Parbhati. Hymns on Venerable saint Beni.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Thou rub sandal on thy body and place basil leaves on thy forehead.
However, thou hold a knife in the hand palm of thy heart.
Thou look like a cheat and fix thy attention like a crane.
Seeing a vegetarian like thee, one's life escapes through one's mouth.
Thou make obeisance for a long time before the beauteous idol of Vishnu.
However, thou are imbued with evil glance, vain are thine nights and days. Pause.
Thou take daily bath and wash your body,
you have two loin cloths, you perform religious rites and only take milk products,
however, in thy heart thou have drawn a scalpel to stab others.
It is thy habit to snatch others wealth.
Thou adore the stone-image and, on thy body, make the mark of the elephant headed god.
Thou remain awake at night to show that thou have entered the Lord's loving adoration.
Thou dance with thine foot, however, thy mind is engrossed in evil deeds.
O libertine, thy dancing is wicked.
Thou sit on the deer-skin and tell the rosary of sweet basil.
Thou put a bright sacred mark on thy brow.
While within thy mind is falsehood, on thy neck, thou wear the rosary of eleocarpus.
O sinner, thou recite not the Lord's Name.
Whosoever realises not the real soul;
vain and blind are all his religious deeds.
Says Beni, meditate thou on thy Lord, by the Guru's grace.
Without the true Guru, thou shall find not the way.
There is but one God. True is His Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His form. He is without fear, sans enmity, beyond birth and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Rag Jaijawanti, 9th Guru.
Contemplate thou thy Lord, yea, contemplate thou thy Lord. This alone shall be of avail unto thee.
Abandon thou the association of worldly valuables and repair to the Reverend Lord's refuge.
Be sure that the pleasures of the world are false and the entire paraphernalia is but an illusion. Pause.
Consider thy wealth as just a dream. Why do thou take pride.
The empire of the earth is like the wall of sand.
Slave Nanak recites the true thing; thy body, O man, must perish away ultimately.
Moment by moment did pass away yesterday. So shall pass away today as well.
Jaijawanti, 9th Guru.
Meditate thou on the Lord, yea, meditate thou on the Pervading God, thy life is flying away.
Why should I warn thee over and over again. Why thou not understand, O fool?
The body is like the hail, it shall vanish away in no time. Pause.
Shed thou all thy doubts and recite thy Lord's Name.
At the last moment, this alone shall go with thee.
Shed (forget) thou sin like poison and enshrine thy Lord's praise in thy mind.
Servant Nanak proclaims thy opportunity is passing away.
Jaijawanti, 9th Guru.
O man, what shall be thy condition?
In this world, the Lord's Name alone is invaluable and thou have not heard the Name with thine ears.
Thou are immensely attached to the mortal sins and have not diverted thy mind from them. Pause.
Thou have obtained human life, howver, thou have not contemplated thy Lord, even for a moment.
For the sake of sexual pleasure, thou have become subservient to a woman and thine feet are fettered.
Proclaims slave Nanak, that the vast expanse of the world is like a dream.
Why meditate thou not on God, the Enemy of ego, to whom mammon in but a slave?
Jaijawanti, 9th Guru.
O man, thy life is passing away, yea, is passing away in vain.
Hearing the Puranas night and day, thou understand not, O ignorant man.
Death, has arrived, O whither shall thou now flee away. Pause.
That body of thine, which thou deem permanent, shall become dust.
Why not recite the Lord's Name, O shameless fool?
Introduce thou thy Lord's devotional service into thy mind and abandon thou thy mind's ego.
Says servant Nanak, thiswise abide thou in this world, O mortal.
There is but one God. True is His Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His form. He is without fear, sans enmity, beyond birth and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Slok Sehaskriti, 1st Guru.
You read books, say vesper prayers, argue;
worship stones and sit in trance like a crane.
With your mouth you utter falsehood as if that be excellent ornaments,
and recite the tripod gaaitri three times a day.
Round your neck is the rosary, on your forehead the sacred mark,
and on your head a towel and you have two lion-cloths.
If you know the nature of the Lord,
then you will find that all these beliefs and rituals are in vain.
Says Nanak, in good faith, meditate thou on the Lord.
Without the True Guru, man finds not the way.
Until the mortal knows the pervading God, his human birth is unprofitable.
The world ocean, only a few cross over by the Guru's grace.
Potent to do all the deeds is the Lord. Nanak says this after deep deliberation.
The creation is in the power of the Creator, who by His might is sustaining it.
Thy way of union with the Lord is the way of Divine Knowledge. With the Brahmans the way is through the Vedas.
Khatri's way is the of bravery and of the Sudras, the way is the service of others.
The duty of all is the duty of the One Lord's meditation, provided one cares to known this secret.
Of him Nanak is a slave. He Himself is the Immaculate Lord.
The One Lord is the God of all gods. He is the soul of their godliness.
If any one knows the mystery of the soul and the Omnipresent Lord;
he himself is the Immaculate Lord and Nanak is the slave of him.
Slok Sehaskriti. 5th Guru.
There is but one God. True is His Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His form. He is without fear, sans enmity, beyond birth and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Who is the mother, who is one's father and son and what is the pleasure of dailying with one's wife.
who is one's brother friend, well wisher and relation and of what avail is the love of the family.
Who is wealth, the embodiment of restlessness, which leaves man, before his very eyes.
The meditation of the Illustrious Lord alone remains with man, with which he is blessed through the saints, the sons of the Imperishable God, O Nanak.
Worthless is the love of the mother and father and worthless is the love of the brothers and kinsmen.
worthless is also the love of making merry with one's wife and sons.
Curse is unto the household affairs.
True is the love of the congregation of saints, through which Nanak abides in peace.
False is the body and perishable is its power.
As the old age increases, with it immensely increases the love of riches.
In the body home, man is but a guest, but he cherishes great hopes.
The terribly unsparing, Righteous judge is counting the mortal's breaths.
The invaluable body has fallen into the well of the worldly love and says Nanak, its only support is the Primal Being.
O Lord, God, the master of the Universe and the Cherisher of the wood, show Thou mercy unto me.
This frail body fortress is built up of water and is plastered with blood and skin.
Its nine entrances are without shutters and it is supported by the beauteous pillar of air.
The ignorant man contemplates not his Lord's name and deems his body eternal.
O Nanak, the priceless body is saved by seeking refuge of the saints,
and reciting the Lord God Master's name, Har Har.
You (the Lord) are Glorious, Imperishable, Knowledgeable of all virtues of living beings, very Compassionate,
Profound, Lofty, Omniscient and Infinite.
Thou love Thine slaves, give them the refuge of Thine feet,
and are the Master of the masterless. Servant Nanak ever seeks Thy refuge.
Seeing a she-deer, the huntsman aims lacs of weapons to kill her.
However, O Nanak, whomsoever the Lord saves; even a hair of his is touched not.
Many may make many efforts and very powerful warriors may serve him on four sides.
He may dwell in a difficult to approach and lofty place and may not ever think of death.
However, when the order of the Illustrious Lord is issued, even an ant draws out his breath, O Nanak.
To be imbued and attuned with the Name, to be compassionate to life and to sing praises of God, these are the deeds worth doing in the Darkage.
Thiswise doubt and attachments of his inner-dwelling are effaced.
My fortunate Lord is pervading all places.
See thou the fulfilling vision of Him, who abides on the tongue of his saints.
O Nanak, recite thou the Name of thy Lord God Master, yea, the Beloved God.
Perishable is beauty, perishable are the islands and perishable are the sun, the moon, the stars and the sky.
Perishable is the earth, mountains, trees and the three worlds.
Perishable are wife, sons, brothers and friends.
Perishable are the beauteous gold, jewels and wealth.
Imperishable is only the Immovable Lord.
Everstable are the Lord's holy men, O Nanak.
Tarry not in practising righteousness, Tarry thou only in committing sins.
Shedding thy avarice, implant thou the Lord's Name within thee.
Seeking the protection of the saints, the sins are washed off.
With whomsoever the Lord is mightily pleased, he is blessed with the attributes of religion, O Nanak.
The man of paltry intelligence is perishing in worldly love and is engrossed in pleasure with his wife.
(Worldliness has so much clung to him, that) he looks adorned with young age, gold earnings,
and beauteous mansion and dresses.
O Eternal Master, O Auspicious Lord and the protection of the saints, Nana pays homage unto Thee.
If there is birth, then there is death also, if weal, then woe also and if indulgence, then aliment as well.
The lofty become low and the tiny very great.
Power breeds ego and pride must have a fall.
Being engrossed into the worldly ways one is ruined.
O Nanak, contemplating the Word Lord in the saints' society and securing a seat by the Auspicious Lord's meditation.
By God's grace, real understanding enters man's mind.
His intellect blossoms forth and he secures a seat in celestial bliss.
He controls his sense organs and his ego in stilled.
Confirmed in gnosis, through the saints, his mind is cooled.
Absorbed in the God's vision, his comings and goings are ended.
The flute of the Name, O Nanak, plays within him.
The Vedas narrate and ponder over God's virtues and good people hear them by various means and ways.
To whom-so-ever the Lord God is merciful, He implants His knowledge in his mind.
Nanak begs for the bounty of the Lord's Name and the Guru-God blesses him with it.
Be not too much anxious about thy mother, father, and brother and don't entertain any anxiety for thy friends.
Nor need you be over anxious for thy wife, sons and friends: being over occupied with them amounts to establishing relation with mammon.
The One Fortunate Lord alone is compassionate, O Nanak. He alone is the Cherisher of all the beings.
Unstable are the riches, unstable are the mind's dreams and unstable are the hopes of many sorts and kinds.
Illusory are the bonds of worldly love, self-conceit, doubt, worldliness and filthy sins, with which the mortal has bound himself.
The man of pollute understanding contemplates not his God and passes through the fire of many times in womb.
Says Nanak, when Thou, O Lord, showed mercy, Thou saved even the sinners, through the saints' society.
If one drops down from a mountain to fall into the underworld, burns in the blazing fire,
or is swept off by the unfathomable water waves; of all these, the worst pain is of the household care, which is the root cause of births and death.
Inspite of adopting various means, one can snap not its bonds, O Nanak. One's only support, help, and the mainstay is the instruction of the friendly saints.
The dreadful diseases, the sins of various murders, the penury of many births and immense miseries,
are all destroyed, by contemplating the Lord's Name, says Nanak, just as the fire reduces to ashes the piles of wood.
Remembering the Lord, inner darkness is illumined and singing His praises, the sins are destroyed.
Enshrining God in the mind and doing supremely immaculate deeds, one is able to smite death's courier with great fear.
Hearing the God's Name, man is rid of coming and going, obtains, all comforts and sees the Lord's accredited vision.
He, the Illustrious Lord, O Nanak is worthy of giving protections, is the Lover of His saints and blesses all with bliss.
The Lord brings to the fore those that are left behind and fulfills the hopes of the hopeless.
The poor, one, He makes rich and destroys He the disease of the diseased one.
His devotees, he blesses with his devotion and they sing the Lord, Name and praise.
O Nanak, a few only, by Guru's service, find the Beneficent Transcendent Lord Master.
He gives support to the supportless. The Name of the Man-lion incarnate Lord is the wealth of poor.
The world-Sustainer is the Master of the masterless and the Beauteously-haired Lord is the Power of the powerless.
The Imperishable Lord, with a string round His belly, is merciful to all the beings and the relation of the meek.
The Omniscient, Omnipresent and Omnipotent Auspicious Lord is the Lover of His saints and the Embodiment of compassion.
The Luminous Lord, the Supreme Master and the Great God abides in every heart.
Nanak begs but this grace from the Merciful Master, that he may forget Him not, yea, forget Him not ever.
O my most sublime Lord, I have no power, neither do I serve thee nor do I love Thee adequately.
By thy grace, O my merciful Guru-God, Nanak meditates on the Lord's Name.
The Lord feeds and sustains the beings and blesses them with the bounties of rest and raiments.
He has created the invaluable, wise and clever human body.
By God's grace, the mortals abide in peace and pleasure. O Nanak, contemplating on the Lord God's Name, man's love with the perishable world is severed.
The Kings of the earth eat the fruit of the charities of the past births.
Through evil intellect in this mortal world, they shall suffer agony for a long time, O Nanak.
He, within whose mind is the Lord's meditation, deems pain to be God's grace.
The apparently healthy one is in fact gravely diseased, If he remember not God, the Embodiment of mercy.
The sublime duty of assuming human body is simply to recite and sing the Lord's praise.
Nectar-sweet is the Lord's Name, O Nanak, the saints in-drink it and long for more and more.
Tolerant and sweet-tempered are the saints and to them the friends or the evil-seekers are alike,
and even those who offer the them varieties of food or who becoming slanderers, draw weapons to kill them; O Nanak.
The saints suffer not disrespect, nor meet they with dishonour.
They become not inglorious, nor do the worldly pains touch them.
They, who, meeting with the saints' society, recite the World-Lord's Name, those mortals abide in peace.
All the saint are an unconquerable army of the heroes, who have doused their body with the coat of arms of humility.
Their weapons and shelter are the recitation of the Lord's praises and the Guru's word is the shield in their hands.
To realise the Lord's path, is their riding the horses, chariots and elephants.
They walk fearlessly amidst the army of their enemies and charge them with the Lord's praises.
They conquer the whole world and overwhelm the five thieves as well, O Nanak.
Owing to evil-intellect, man is engrossed in optical illusion, phantom city and the shade of a tree.
Similarly, the love of family is false, so, Nanak meditates on the Name of his Lord Master.
I possess not the treasure of the Veda's knowledge, nor am I a man of merit, nor sing I the praise of the Lord's Name.
I am not blessed with the throat of singing invaluable melody, nor am I clever, wise and shrewd.
Through good fortune and concerted effort, are obtained such treasures, Nanak by the saints' society even the fools become scholars.
To recite the Lord's Name, is the rosary around my neck and to love the Lord is my secret telling of it.
Reciting with my tongue the sublime word of the Guru, I have been saved from mammon, the joy of the eyes.
The mortal, who is without the Guru's instruction, his life is accursed and contaminated.
He, the blockhead is equal to a dog, a swine, an ass a crow and a snake.
Whosoever contemplates the Lord's lotus feet, enshrines His Name in his mind,
and, associating with the saints, sings God's praise, he does not countenance myrimidons of death, O Nanak.
Not difficult to obtain are wealth and beauty. Nor is it difficult to obtain the sovereignty of paradise.
Not difficult to obtain are viands and dainties, nor it is difficult to obtain elegant raiments.
Not difficult to obtain are the sons, friends, brothers and kinsmen, nor it is difficult to obtain revelments of women.
Not difficult to obtain is accomplishment of learning. Not difficult to obtain is dexterity and cleverness.
But difficult to obtain is only the Lord's Name, O Nanak, It is obtained by the Lord's grace in the saints' society.
Wherever I see, whether in elysium, on this mortal world or in the under-word, there I see my Lord.
Nanak, the Lord is pervading everywhere. No blame and blot attaches to Him.
Contemplating God, poison turns into nectar and enemies into comrades and friends,
and pain turns into pleasure and the awestricken become fear-free.
The shelterless find place of rest in the Name, when Guru, the embodiment of the Lord God, becomes merciful, O Nanak.
He, who blesses all with humility, has also blessed me with humility as well. The Purifier of all has purified me too.
The Creator of all has created me as well. Nanak no accusation or stigma clings to Him.
Cool is not the moon-good, nor is cool the white sandal tree.
Cold is not the winter season, O Nanak, cool are the friendly saints alone.
Whosoever is blessed with the spell of the Lord Master's Name and meditates on the All-pervading Lord.
He who deems pain and pleasure alike and whose way of life is immaculate and uninimical,
He, who is king to all the beings and overcomes his five deadly sins,
Whose fare is the Lord's praise and who remains detached from mammon like the lotus in the water,
Who instructs the friend and the foe alike and who loves the Lord's devotion alone,
Who hears not another's slander with his ears and stilling his self-conceit, becomes the dust of all.
whosoever has these six qualities, O nana, he is named the friendly8 saint and the perfect person.
The she goat, enjoying fruits and roots, feels awe-stricken, living near a tiger.
Similar is the condition of the world, which is affected not by pleasure and then by pain, O Nanak.
Fraud, accusations, millions of maladies, offences, filthy sins,
doubt, dishonour, ego and absorption is worldly valuables
through these, the mortal goes, comes and wanders in hell and in spite of making many efforts, he is not emancipated.
O Nanak, one is rendered immaculate by contemplating on Lord's Name in the society of saints,
and reciting the Master's praises, all the time.
Seeking the protection of the All-pervading and Tender-hearted Lord Master, the mortal is ferried across.
The Perfect Lord is potent to do all deeds and to give all gifts.
He gives hope to the hopeless one and is the Abode of all the riches.
Nanak meditates on God, the Treasure of virtues, of whom beg all the beggars.
The tortuous place becomes conformable and arch-miseries turn into all comforts.
The evil worlds, distinctions and doubts are obliterated and the perverse persons and back-biters become good people.
In woe and weal even, one becomes stable-hearted and, shorn, of fear, one becomes fear-free.
The aweful forest is rendered a populated big city, Such are the merits of religious life, with which one is blessed through the Lord's grace.
Reciting the Lord's Name in the saints' society, O Nanak, the protection of the feet of the Merciful Lord Master is obtained.
O worldly love, thou are the invincible hero of the battlefield. Thou completely crush even the very powerful ones.
Thou fascinate even the heavenly heralds, celestial musicians, gods, mortals beasts and birds.
Nanak has sought the sanctuary of the World-Lord and makes obeisance unto his Creator-Lord.
O lust, thou land the mortal in hell and make him wander in many species.
Thou steal the heart, pervade the three worlds and destroy meditation, penance and virtue.
However, thou give but scant pleasure, make the mortal poor and unsteady and are contained in high and low.
O Nanak, thy fear is dispelled by associating with the saints and seeking the protection of the All-pervading God.
O wrath, thou are the root of strife, compassion wells not up in thee, ever.
The sinful mortals, thou take in thy power and they dance like monkeys.
In thy association, man is debased and the Death's courier chastises him with various punishments.
O my Merciful Master, the Destroyer of the sorrow of the meek, Thou protect all the beings from wrath, O Nanak.
O covetousness, thou have clung even to the great and by thine waves play many a prank.
Through thee, the beings run about in many directions and greatly wobble in multiple manners.
Thou have respect neither for thy friend, nor Guru, nor relation, nor mother and nor father.
Thou make man do what he should not do; Thou make men eat, what he should not eat and thou make man build what he should not build; such is thy reputation.
Prays Nanak, O Lord God, the Man-lion, I have sought Thy protection, save me, save me.
O self-conceit, the soul of sins, thou are the soul of birth and death.
Thou abandon friends, hold fast to enemies and spread many illusions.
Through thee, the mortal grows weary of coming and going and undergoes much pain and pleasure.
Through thee one wanders in the terrible wilderness of doubt and contracts supremely trouble some and incurable aliments.
The only physician is the Transcendent Lord, the Great God, so Nanak meditates on the Lord God's Name.
O Master of the universe, Thou are the Lord of the vital-breath, the Treasure of mercy and the Guru of the world.
O the Destroyer of the world's fever and the Embodiment of compassion, rid me Thou of all mine troubles.
O Merciful, capable of affording shelter and the Lord of the meek, have Thou mercy on me.
So that even in times of body's health and ill-health, Nanak may continue contemplating God, the Lord of wealth with a string round His belly.
Seeking the shelter of the Lord's lotus feet, I recite His praises.
Associating with the saints, O Nanak, I have crossed the great, terrible and arduous world ocean.
The Transcendent Lord has protected me head to brow and the Supreme Lord has protected my hands and body.
The Lord Master has saved my soul and the Lord of the world has saved my wealth and feet.
The compassionate Guru has protected my everything and has destroyed my dread and distress.
Nanak has entered the sanctuary of the imperishable Lord, who is the Lover of His saints and the Master of the Masterless.
The power with which the God has supported the sky and locked fire in the wood.
The power with which He has supported the moon, the sun and the stars and has infused light and breath into the body.
The power with which He has cherished the child in the mother's womb and allowed it not to be destroyed the child in the mother's womb and allowed it not to be destroyed by the belly diseases.
With the same power the Lord has restrained His oceans and permits not the water waves to destroy the land.
The Lord of the world is supremely beauteous. His supremely beauteous His meditation is the life of all.
Nanak, associating with the saints and walking on the immaculate path of the Lord's meditation, he is found.
The mosquitoes pierce through a stone, the ants cross mire,
the cripples traverse the ocean and the blind ones see even in darkness,
by meditation on the Master of universe in the society of saints. Nanak has therefore, sought the protection of God, the Lord Master.
As is a Brahman without a sacred mark, a king without command,
and a warrior without weapons, so is a saint without the Lord's meditation, O Nanak.
The Lord has no couch, no religious mark, no bludgeon and nor is He of sable colour.
Wondrous is His form and he is unborn.
The Vedas describe Him as Illimitable and Infinite.
The most high great and limitless is the Lord.
He, the Imperishable Lord, abides in the mind of the saints. Nanak, only they, who understand Him are very fortunate.
Man abides in the world wilderness. His Kinsmen are like dogs, jackals and asses.
In this arduous place, also live the five supremely unconquerable thieves and man is inebriated with the wine of worldly love.
Man wanders in worldly attachment, love, fear and doubt and is caught in the sharp and strong noose of self-conceit.
Impassable and aweful is the ocean of fire like water, whose yonder shore is beyond reach and which can be crossed not.
O Nanak, contemplating the Lord God, through His grace, in the saints' society and seeking the refuge of His feet, one is emancipated.
When the Lord Master showers His benediction, then all the maladies are eradicated.
Seeking the refuge of the pervading God, Nanak recites His praises in the saints' society.
If a man is beauteous and sweet-spoken, but harbours enmity on the farm of his mind;
Beware of him, O friendly saints, for false is his making of obeisance.
The unmindful fool knows not, that each day his breaths are on the decrease.
His most beauteous body is wearing off and old age, the daughter of death, is eating it up.
Man is engrossed in sporting with his family and hoping for perishable goods enjoys poisonous pleasures.
Rambling and roaming in many births, man grows weary. So Nanak has sought the refuge of God, the Embodiment of mercy.
O tongue, O relisher, the dainties are dear unto thee.
Thou are dead to truth, are involved in great strifes and are separated from these immaculate words.
God the Lord Master.
Intoxicated with lust, the women are proud of,
dominating even the very powerful ones.
They contemplate not their Lord's lotus feet. Accursed is their straw like worthless life.
O thou are insignificant like an ant, however, thou shall be great by amassing the wealth of the Lord's meditation.
Over and over again, Nanak makes obeisance unto his Lord.
The grass blade becomes a mountain, what is barren becomes green,
the drowning one swims, the empty one is filled to brim,
and millions of suns shine in darkness,
when the Guru-God becomes merciful, prays Nanak.
One is saved in the company of the Brahman. But Brahmin is he, who is brimful with the Godly deeds.
The persons, whose soul is imbued with the world, they, O Nanak depart all fruitlessly.
Man steals others wealth, commits many sins and all his sermonizing is for his livelihood.
His mercurial desire is satiated not, his mind is absorbed in riches and he does the deeds of a swine.
They, who are intoxicated with God and merge in His feet, are ferried across the aweful and arduous world ocean.
Associating with the saints, O Nanak, millions of sins are destroyed. There is not even an iota of doubt about this.
5th Guru Gatha.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace He is obtained.
Camphor, flowers and perfumes become filthy by coming in contact with the human body.
The unwise one is proud of marrow, blood, foul odour and bones.
If by becoming subtle like an atom one crosses through the firmament, continents, the worlds and its regions,
in the twinkling of an eye; even then, O Nanak, he is emancipated not without the saint.
Know if for certain that death is true and all that is seen is perishable.
Recite thou the Lord's praise in the society of the saints, O Nanak this alone shall go with thee.
The mind seeks after riches, the loved friends and kinsmen.
Contemplating God, the Word-Cherisher, in the saints' society, O Nanak, the eternal place of rest is obtained.
Associating of sandal, the tree of Azadirachta indica too becomes as sandal.
The bamboo also dwells near, however, being arrogantly minded it is perfumed not, O Nanak.
In this Gatha dialect (God's gospel) is weaved the wisdom, reflecting over which one's ego is crushed.
By charging the arrows of God's Name, O Nanak, the five enemies are slain.
The saint's words are the paths of peace. They are obtained by good destiny.
Reciting the Lord's praises, one's coming and goings are ended.
when leaves wither and fall, they can attach not again to the tree branch.
Nanak, without the Name, there is suffering and day and night one wanders in species.
Through great good fortune, one is blessed with the love for the saints' society.
Whosoever recites God's Name and praises, him, the world ocean affects not, O Nanak.
Profound and infinite is the gospel of the Lord. Rare is the one who understands it.
They who understand it, O Nanak, abandon worldly love and recite the World-Lord's praises in the society of the saints.
The saint's word is the sublime spell. Through it millions of sins are eradicated.
Meditating on the God's lotus feet, O Nanak, all the generations are saved.
Beauteous is that palace, in which the Lord's praises are sung.
They who recite the Lord's Name are emancipated. O Nanak; the very fortunate ones alone are blessed with this state.
I have found God as my friend, yea, my good friend,
and He breaks not my heart ever.
He, whose abode and weight are unweighable,
him alone Nanak has made the friend of his heart.
Ill-repute is effaced by the true son, who in his mind contemplates the Guru's word.
The loved Imperishable Lord, O Nanak, ferries man across the world ocean.
To forget the World-Lord is one's death. To contemplate the God's Name is one's life.
God is obtained by associating with the saints, by virtue of the primal writ, O Nanak.
As the snake charmer, by his spell renders the serpent poisonless and without teeth,
the same way the saints remove misery,
but they are found by good fortune.
The Lord is pervading every-where and gives refuge to all the being.
O Nanak, man's mind is touched with His love, By virtue of the Guru's grace and vision.
My mind is deeply affected with the Lord's lotus feet, and I am blessed with all the joys.
From the ancient times, the pious persons have been singing God's praise, O Nanak.
By reciting and singing the sublime word of the Guru in the association of saints,
man should cross the world ocean, O Nanak. This human life he shall obtain not again.
Men give thought to the Vedas, the Puranas and the Shashtras.
By enshrine the Name of One God in mind,
one can save all the beings of one's generation.
O Nanak, a few very lucky ones cross over thiswise.
Contemplating the World-Lord's Name, all the generations are saved.
Associating with the saints, God's meditation is obtained. By great good fortune is seen the Lord's holy vision.
The saint forsake all his sins and implants all faith within his mind.
They, on whose forehead it so writ, O Nanak, obtain the society of the saints.
The Lord was, is and shall ever He sustains and destroys all.
O Nanak, know thee the saints to be true, for, they bear love to their Lord.
Mortal loves not the Guru's word, which bestows bliss, is absorbed in saf-flower dye.
Disease, sorrow and separation befall him, O Nanak and he obtains not peace even in dream.
Funhas, 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
With pen in His hand, the Inscrutable Lord writes destiny on the forehead of all.
The Lord of unparalleled beauty is involved with all.
With my mouth, O my Lord, I can sing not Thine praises.
Nanak is fascinated by seeing Thy vision and is a sacrifice unto Thee, O Lord.
Seated in the society of saints, I recite the praise of my Lord.
I dedicate to Him all my decorations and give Him all this soul of mine.
Thirsting in the hope of His vision, I have spread the bedding for my Beauteous spouse.
Harihan, if good destiny be writ on the brow, then alone the Friend it obtained.
O mate, I have prepared every thing collyrium, garland and betel-leaf.
I have embellished myself with sixteen type of decorations and have applied antimony to my eyes.
If my spouse visits my home then attain I to everything.
O Harihan, without the Groom, all embellishments go vain.
Very fortunate is she, in whose home her Bridegroom abides.
All the decorations become hers then and she alone is the happy bride.
Becoming care-free, I now, rest in sleep since my mind's aspirations have been fulfilled.
Harihan! When my spouse came to my house, then did I obtain everything.
My desire, so intense is my desire to see Thee, O my Love, that Thou ought to fulfil this desire of mine.
When the True Guru becomes merciful, then alone is attained the Perfect Lord.
In my body are so many demerits, that I am overshadowed with demerits.
O my God, when the True Guru become merciful, then alone is the mind held in check.
Says, Nanak, I have meditated on my Lord, who is Infinite and Endless.
Difficult to cross is this world ocean, however, the True Guru has ferried me across it.
Comings and goings are ended, when the perfect Lord is met with.
Harihan! the Nectar-Name of God, I have obtained from the True Guru.
On my hand is the auspicious sign of lotus and in my heart compound abides bliss.
In my throat is the jewel of the God's Name, beholding which my sorrow has departed, O my mate.
I abide with God, the Sustainer of the universe who is the capital of the comforts,
and in whose hand are ever abide wealth, perfection and nine treasures, O Harihan!
They, who go to enjoy other man's women, they alone shall suffer shame.
They, who ever steal others wealth, how can their sins be concealed?
They, who recite the holy praises of God, redeem all their generations.
Harihan! They, who hear God's Name and reflect on the Transcendent Lord, become pure.
The sky above looks graceful and the earth below appears beauteous.
The lightning flashes in ten directions and I long to see the face of my Beloved.
I go searching in alien lands; how can I find my Love?
Harihan! If such be the writ of destiny on my brow then alone, can I merge in His vision.
I have seen all the places, however, there is none like thine.
Of Himself, Lord the creator has established thee; therefore, beauteous are thou.
Ramdaspur is thickly populated, it is unparalleled and supremely beauteous.
O Harihan! Says Nanak, one's sins are washed off, by bathing in the tank of Ram Dass.
The wise pied-cuckoo, in his heart, desires the friendly rain.
He longs for that alone to which his vital breath is attached.
He wanders sadly from forest to forest, for the sake of a drop of water.
so does God's slave ask for the Name. Nanak is a sacrifice unto him.
The heart of my friend is supremely beauteous, its mystery can be known not.
He, who is the purchaser of the matchless virtues, he alone recognises the quintessence.
When man's mind is merged in the Lord's mind, then, obtain he great bliss.
Harihan! When man overcomes his mercurial mind, the thief; then he receive the true wealth.
In the dream I was lifted high towards my Love, however, why did not I seize His skirt then?
Seeing my beauteous Spouse reclining, my mind was bewitched.
I am searching for His footprints, Pray tell me, how shall I find my love?
Harihan! O my mate, tell me of the effort by which I may meet with my Beloved.
The eyes that see not the saint of God, those eyes ever remain miserable.
The ears that hear not the God's holy word, a block should be put in those ears.
The tongue, which recites not the Name, ought to be cut bit by bit.
Harihan! When man forgets his Lord, the King, he then declines day by day.
The wings of the bumble-bee are caught in the greatly woven fragrant petals of lotus.
Entangled with the petals, he loses his sense.
Is there is such a friend of me, who may snap the hard knot?
Nanak, the One Venerable Lord of the earth is such, who unites with Himself the separated.
I run about in many directions for attaining my Lord's love.
The five adversaries torture me, In what way can I destroy them?
Aim at them the sharp arrows of the meditation of the Lord's Name.
Harihan! The way to slay the utterly pain-giving enemies is obtained from the perfect Guru.
The True Guru has blessed me with the bounty of the Lord's Name and it exhausts not ever.
Eating and expending it, all the pious persons are emancipated.
Being pleased, the Lord has blessed me with the treasure of His Nectar-Name.
Nanak, ever dwell thou on thy Lord, who dies not ever.
Wherever goes the Lord's saint, beauteous becomes that place.
Meditating on the God's Name, all the comforts are attained.
People hail the Lord's saint and his slanderers putrefy to death.
Says Nanak, O friend, recite thou the Lord's Name and bliss shall abide within thy mind.
The mortal serves not ever the Immaculate Lord, who is the Purifier of the sinners.
In false rivalries, the mortal is wasted away. How long can he pull on thiswise?
Seeing the optical illusions unto those, why feel thou happy, O mortal?
Harihan! I am a sacrifice unto those, who are approved of in the Lord's Court.
The unwise one commits several misdeeds and good many sins.
The fool's body is an abode of the highly foul odours and shall become dust.
He wanders in the darkness of ego and does not think of his death.
Harihan! Beholding a city in the air, why thou accept that as true?
Who can preserve him, whose life has ended?
How long can the physicians go on suggesting various ways.
O ignorant man, remember thou thy own Lord, who shall be of avail unto thee.
Harihan! Without the Name, the body shall become dust and everything shall go waste.
In-drink thou the medicine of the peerless and priceless Name.
Meeting together, the saints partake of it and give it to all others.
He alone is blessed with the Lord's Name, who is destined to receive it.
Harihan! I am a sacrifice unto those, who enjoy their God's love.
The assembly of the physicians meets together,
the medicines become effectual, when the Lord, of Himself, stands amidst them.
Whatever good and bad their actions are, those very actions become manifest.
Harihan! Troubles, diseases and sins all vanish from the body of the saints.
Chaubolas.5th Guru.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Saman! If this love could be got in exchange with riches,
then he, the Rawan, was not poor, who severed his heads and offered them to Shiva.
Musan! My body is absorbed in the love and affection of my Lord and between Him and myself, there is not a difference of even the size of a mustard seed.
The Lord's lotus feet have pierced my soul. Then alone man realises the Lord, If his mind is to His attached.
The oceans, mountains, wildernesses, forests, nine regions of the earth and doubts shall all be crossed over,
if in the love of Beloved in him, one shall consider those as only two steps, O Musan!
O Musan! The light of the Lord's love, which is contained in my mind sky,
has made me cling to my Lord, like the black-bee, that is caught in the woven lotus flower.
The worship, penance, self abstinence, pleasure, peace, honour, greatness and ego,
I sacrifice all of these, for a moment's love of my Lord. O Musan!
O Musan ! This world is dying and being plundered, it realises not the Lord's mystery.
It is pierced through not with the love of the Beloved and is entangled in the false pursuits.
When man's home and property are burnt, then because of their separation and love, he becomes miserable.
O Musan! However, then alone is man the plundered, when he forgets the Merciful Master.
Whosoever enjoys the relish of the Lord's love; he contemplates His feet in him mind.
Nanak, the lovers of the Transcendent Lord, go not anywhere else.
Ascending lacs of very high hillocks, the mercurial mind has become miserable.
Like the lotus blossoming forth out of the low-lying mud, the beauteous way of life wells up from supreme humility.
My Lord has lotus like eyes bedecked with sable collyrium, beauteous face and immaculate mind.
O Musan! I would break into bits, the necklace, with whose mysterious love I am intoxicated, to be able to embrace the Lord.
I am inebriated with the love of my Loved Spouse and contemplating His I am conscious not of my being.
Say Nanak, I am but a low moth seeking God's light, and it has become manifest throughout the whole world.
Slok. Sire Saint Kabir.

Kabir my rosary is my tongue, on which is my Lord's Name.
Form the beginning, all the saints dwell in peace through it.
Kabir, everyone laughs at my caste.
A sacrifice am I unto this caste, in which I meditate on my Lord, the Creator.
Kabir, why waver thou and let thy mind vacillate?
The Lord is the Master of all comforts, so, quaff thou, the essence of His Name.
Kabir, if ear-rings of gold are make and they are studded with jewels,
the wearer thereof, looks like the burnt reed, if the Name is not in his mind.
Kabir, rare is such a person, who remains dead in life.
Shore of fear, recites he, his Lord's praises. Whithersoever I look, there I find that Lord, to save Him.
Kabir, the day, I would die, there shall be joy thereafter.
I would meet with my Lord and my fellow devotees too shall meditate on the World-Lord.
Kabir, I am the worst of all; except me, everyone else is good.
Whosoever realises thus, he alone is my friend.
Kabir, mammon came to me, assuming various garbs.
My Guru saved me and she make me obeisance.
Kabir, destroy thou only that, by whose death, thou may be blessed with peace.
Then every one shall call thee good and virtuous and no one shall deem thee bad.
When the nights are dark, the men with dark deeds arise, says Kabir.
And taking nooses with them, they run about, however, know thou that they are the accursed of the Lord.
Kabir, good is the sandal tree, even when it may be surrounded by the buteafrondosa trees.
Those, who live near the sandal trees; they too become like sandal.
Kabir, the bamboo, is drowned in its ego. Let no one drown oneself like this.
Bamboo abides near the sandal tree, however, it become not fragrant.
Kabir, for the sake of the world, man loses his faith, however, the world goes not with him.
Thus, the ignorant man has struck his foot with an exe by his own hand.
Kabir, wherever I went, I saw wonderful plays everywhere,
however, without the devotees of the Lord, the world is a wilderness for me.
Kabir, blessed is the tenement of the saint; the abode of the sinners burns like a furnace.
Let fire prey upon those mansions, in which the Name of God is not.
Kabir why wail at the death of a saint? He is merely going to his own Home.
Weep thou for the wretched mammon-worshipper who is sold from shop to ship.
Kabir, as is the piece of garlic, so is an infidel.
Even if one eats it sitting in a corner, it becomes manifest at last.
Kabir wealth is the churning pot and the breath is the churning staff.
The saints eat the butter and the world drinks the butter-milk.
Kabir, mammonish body is the churning-pot in which breath flows like the stream of iced water.
Whosoever churns, he eats the butter. Others, like the churning-rod obtain nothing.
Kabir, mammon, is a thief, who breaks into and plunders the shop.
Kabir alone is plundered not, He is the one who has cut it into twelve pieces.
Kabir, making good many friends alone, one does not attain peace in this world.
They, who keep their mind fixed on One God, ever attain unto peace.
Kabir, death, of which the world is terrified, is pleasing unto my mind;
it is in death alone, that one is blessed with the perfect supreme bliss.
Attaining to the Lord's treasures, O Kabir, open thou not its knot.
There is no city to sell it, no assayer, no customer and no price for it.
Kabir, profess thou love for him alone whose Master is the Lord.
The scholars, kings and the landlords, of what avail is love for them?
O Kabir, the worldly love departs by loving the One Lord.
It matters not, whether thou wear long hair or whether thou shave thy head clean.
Kabir, the world is but a black chamber of the lamp-soot. The blind ones alone fall into its trap.
I am a sacrifice unto those, who even when cast into it, escape unsoiled.
Kabir this body must perish; if thou can, then save it.
Even they, have to depart barefooted who has amassed millions and millions.
Kabir, when this body has to depart, then put it on the good path.
Either, associate thou with the saints, or sing thou thy God's praises.
Kabir, dying, by one's turn, everyone has to die, and yet, none knows how to die.
Whosoever dies, let him die such a death, that he may not have to die again.
Kabir, difficult to obtain is the human birth, it comes not again and again,
just as the ripe fruit of the forest, which when falls to the ground, attaches not again to the branch.
O my God, Thou Thyself is great God and great is Thy Name.
When man first abandons his bodily ego, then alone, obtains he the Lord's jewel.
Kabir, prate thou not in vain. Nothing shall happen at thy bidding.
No one can set aside the deed, which the Merciful Master is doing.
Kabir, no one, who is false, can withstand the Lord's touchstone.
He alone can bear the Lord's ordeal, one who remains dead in life.
Kabir, men wear gaudy robes and eat betal-leaves and betal-nuts.
However, without the Name of One God, they are bound and marched off to the Yama's city.
Kabir, old is the boat and thousands of holes have appeared in it.
They, who are light of weight (without the wheavy weight of sins) cross over and those with heavy load (of sins) on their head are drowned.
Kabir, the bones burn like wood and the hair burn like grass.
Seeing this world on fire like this, Kabir has become sad.
Kabir, take not thou pride on thy bones wrapped up in skin.
They, who were on the horses and under the canopies, were at last buried under the earth.
Kabir, be thou not proud on seeing thine lofty mansions.
Today or tomorrow thou shall lie beneath the earth and grass shall grow over thee.
Kabir! Let no one take pride or laugh at the poor.
As yet the boat is in the sea. Who knows what may happen?
Kabir, be not proud on seeing thy beauteous body.
Thou shall leave it today or tomorrow as a serpent does its slough.
Kabir, if thou can plunder, then thou must plunder the loot of the Lord's Name.
Otherwise, thou shall afterwards repent when thy soul shall leave the body.
Kabir, there is not even a single such man, who applies fire to his own home,
and who by burning his five sons, remains attuned to the Lord alone.
Kabir is there such a one, who sells off his son and sells off daughter,
and entering into partnership with Kabir, deals with his God alone?
Kabir, I remind thee of it, Live thou not under any doubt.
Now, thou are eating the fruit of those deeds that you did in the past.
Kabir, firs, I thought learning to be good, then, I thought Yoga to be better.
However, now I forsake not the Lord's adoration, though men may slander me.
Kabir, how can the poor people, who have no gnosis in their mind, revile me?
Kabir continues to recite the Lord's name, abandoning all worldly affairs.
Kabir, the stranger's petti-coat has caught fire on all the four sides.
The body has been burnt to charcoal, however, the fire has touched not the soul thread.
Kabir the patched garment has been burnt and the begging bowl is completely shattered.
The poor yogi has played his game, and on his seat remain but ashes.
Kabir, the fish is in thin water and the fisherman casts his net.
Thou shall escape not in this little pool, O fish. Thou ought to think of returning to the ocean again.
Kabir, leave thou not the ocean, though it be very saline.
If thou search for shelter from pond to pond, no one shall call thee wise.
Kabir, they who have no Guru, are washed away. No one is a saviour of them.
Let thou be resigned to thy God in utter humility, and then let all that happen what the Creator does.
Kabir, good is even the bitch of the Lord's sage and bad is the mother of an infidel.
Become, the bitch hears God's Name and praise and the infidel's mother deals in sins.
Kabir, weak is the man-deer and this world tank is surrounded by verdure of temptations.
There are lakhs of hunters of one living being. How long can it escape death?
Kabir, they who make their home on the bank of the Ganges and drink pure water,
even they are emancipated not without the Lord's meditation. Kabir proclaims this eternal truth.
Kabir, my mind has become immaculate like the Ganges' water.
The Lord follows me, saying "Kabir, O my Kabir".
Kabir, yellow is the turmeric and white in colour is the lime.
Then alone is the Beloved Lord met, when both the colours are lost.
Kabir, turmeric loses its yellowness and not even a trace of whiteness of lime remains.
I am a sacrifice unto this love, by which caste tribe and lineage are effaced.
Kabir, narrow is the door of salvation, its breadth is one tenth part of a mustard seed.
Thy mind has overgrown like an elephant. How can it pass through?
O Kabir, if I meet with such a Guru, who in his mercy blesses me with the gift,
then the door of salvation would open wide and I will easily pass through it.
Kabir! I have no shed nor any hut. I have neither a house nor a village.
I have no caste and name and the Lord shall ask not who I am.
Kabir, I long to die, however, when I die, then, let it be at the Lord's door.
May the Lord not ask, "who is this man lying at my door?"
Kabir, I have done is not, nor will I do it, nor can my body do it.
What do I know as to what my God has done, that Kabir is acclaimed all over.
Kabir, from whose mouth, even in dream, issues the Lord's Name as he mutters;
Let the skin of my body be the shoes for his feet.
Kabir, we are the puppets of clay and bear the name of men.
Though, guests here for only four days, we occupy very great space.
Kabir I have made myself into henna and have thoroughly ground myself.
However, thou, O Groom, has inquired not about me and has not applied me to Thine feet ever.
Kabir, the door at which no one is stopped from coming and going,
how can that kind of door be left, which is such a type?
Kabir I was drowning, however, the wave of virtues quickly saved me.
When I saw the ship was rotten, the, I got down all at once.
Kabir, a sinner loves not Lord's meditation yea, the God's worship does not please him,
like the fly that forsakes sandal and goes there where there is an evil odour.
Kabir, the physician is dead, the patient is dead and dead is the whole world.
Kabir alone is not dead for whom there is no one to weep.
Kabir, the mortal meditates not on the Lord. Such a great evil habit has attached to him.
The body is a wooden pot. It cannot be put on the fire again.
Kabir, it has so happened that I did what pleased my mind.
Why should I now fear death when I have taken red lead in my hand?
Kabir, just as man sucks sugarcane for the sake of sweet-juice, so should he strive hard for virtue.
No one calls him good, who is without virtue
Kabir the pitcher is full of water, It shall break today or tomorrow.
They, who contemplate not their Guru, they shall be plundered on the way.
Kabir, I am the Lord's dog and Moti, is my Name.
There is chain on my neck, and go I, where I am pulled with the chain.
Kabir, why thou display thy wooden rosary to people?
In thy mind thou remember not the Lord; of what avail is this rosary to thee?
Kabir, the serpent of separation from the Lord abides within my mind and it yields to no charm.
He, who is separated from his Lord, lives not it he lives, then, becomes he insane.
Kabir, the philosopher's stone and sandal, they have the same good quality.
Whatever comes into their contact, that becomes sublime Iron it transmuted into gold and the odorouless wood is rendered fragrant?
Kabir, bad is the death's club, that is hard to endure.
I have met with a saint and he has attached me to his skirt.
Kabir the physician says, I alone am good. All medicines are in my power.
However, this thing belongs to Lord, He takes it away, when He wills.
Kabir! Let any one beat one's drum for ten days.
This world is like the meeting of persons on a river-boat, who shall not meet again.
Kabir, if I make the seven oceans my ink, make the entire vegetation my pen,
and make the earth my paper, even then, I can write not the God's praises.
Kabir, what harm can my weaver's caste do unto me, when the Lord abides in my mind?
Kabir, the Pervading God, has taken me into His embrace and I am rid of all my involvement.
Kabir, their is not any such person, who may set fire to his place.
Slaying his five sons, he remains attached to the love of his Lord.
Kabir, there is no such man, who may burn this body of his.
The blind man realises not his Lord, though Kabir continues to shout at him.
Kabir, mounted on the pyre, the widow cries out, "Hear, O my brethren who have come this cremation ground,
all the persons have departed, ultimately, the thing of use to me and to you is the Lord's meditation".
Kabir, the mind has become like a bird, flying and taking wing, it goes in ten directions.
As is the company it associates with, so is the fruit it eats.
Kabir, thou have obtained the place, which thou were searching.
Thou thyself have turned to be the One, whom thou thought to be different from thee.
Kabir, I am destroyed and ruined by the evil company, like the plantain near the wild caper.
The latter waves and the former is pierced through by its thorns, So see thou not even, the sinner's society.
Kabir, man wishes to tread the path, carrying on his head the load of others sins.
He fears not the load of his own sins. The road ahead is difficult to tread.
Kabir, the standing forest tree, which is burning, cries, out.
Let me not fall into the hand of blacksmith, who would burn me a second time.
Kabir, on the death of one, two died and on the death of two, four.
On the death of four, died six, four males and two females.
Kabir, I have seen, looked around and searched the world, but I have found no place of rest anywhere.
They, who remember not their God's Name, why do they wander in other pursuits?
Kabir, associate thou only with the saint, who shall emancipate thee in the end.
Associate thou not with the mammon worshipper, through which, thou shall be ruined.
Kabir, realising that the Lord is contained in the world, contemplate His I in this world.
They, who meditate not on the God's Name, have been born in vain in this world.
Kabir lean thou on the Lord's hope alone. All other hopes lead to despair.
They, who forsake the God's Name, shall realise its worth, when they fall into hell.
Kabir has made many disciples and followers, however, he has not made God his friend.
He had set out to meet his God, however, his mind failed him halfway.
Kabir, what can the poor creature do, it the Lord assists him not?
On whatever branch he places his foot, that one cracks, and breaks down.
Kabir falls into the mouth of those, who practise not what they preach to others.
They keep an eye on other's property, however, their own farm is being eaten up.
Kabir, I will associate only with the saints, even if I may have to eat barley bread.
What is to be, let it happen. I shall associate not with the mammon worshippers.
Kabir, associating with the saints, the Lord's love doubles day-by-day.
The infidel is like the black blanket that becomes not white by washing.
Kabir, thou have shaved not thy mind, why shave thou thy hair.
Whatever is done that is done by the mind, so vain is thy shaving the head.
Kabir, leave thou not thy Lord, however, if the body or wealth go, let those go.
My mind is pierced through with the Lord's lotus feet and I am absorbed in His Name.
Kabir, all the strings of the instrument, which I played upon, are broken.
What can the poor instrument do, when the player has departed?
Kabir, shave thou the mother of that Guru, through whom doubt departs not.
He himself is drowned in the four Vedas and drowns his disciples as well.
Kabir, whatever sins the mortal commits, he tries to keep them hidden under s cover.
At last they are all disclosed, when the Lord-Justiciar holds and inquiry.
Kabir, abandoning the Lord's meditation, thou have reared a large family.
Thou continue to do worldly affairs, though none of thine brothers and kinsmen had remained stable.
Kabir, abandoning the God's meditation, the woman, who wakes at night and goes to the cremation ground to practise witch craft;
She is born as a serpent and eats her own offspring.
Kabir, abandoning the Lord's meditation, if a woman observes the fast of the smallpox-Goddess,
she is then reborn as a she-donkey and carries a load of four maunds.
Kabir, exceedingly great wisdom is in this, that man should remember God in his mind.
The Lord's meditation is like playing on the noose and if man falls from it, then finds he no place of rest.
Kabir, blessed is the mouth, with which mouth the Lord's Name is recited.
What to say of the poor body of that creature, even his village shall be purified.
Kabir, blessed is the family, is which family God's slave is born.
The family, is which the Lord's slave is born not; that family is useless like the buteafrondosa.
Kabir, the possession of very great number of horses, elephants and carriages and the waving of lacs of banners;
Begging is better than these comforts, if the days pass in contemplating the Lord.
Kabir, carrying the drum on my shoulder, I have traversed the whole world.
No one is the friend of any one else, I have seen and carefully examined all.
Kabir, the pearls are scattered on the road and a blind man comes that way.
Without the Light of the Lord of the universe, the mortal passes the pearls by.
Kabir, drowned is my family, when my son Kamal was born.
Forsaking the God's meditation, he has brought home wealth.
Kabir, when thou go to meet the saint, take not another with thee,
then turn thou not thy foot backward and march on ahead., and whatever else happens, let that happen.
Kabir, blind thou not thyself with the chain, with which the world is bound.
As the salt is lost in flour, so shall thy gold like body disappear.
Kabir, when the soul-swan is about to fly and the body is about to be bruised, even then mortal instructs with gestures.
Even then, the mortal leaves not the meanness of his eyes.
Kabir, O my Lord, with my eyes I see Thee and with mine ears hear I Thy Name.
With my tongue I recite Thy Name and enshrine Thine lotus feet within my mind.
Kabir, by the True Guru's grace, I have escaped from paradise and hell.
In enjoy abiding in the Lord's lotus feet, in the beginning and at the end.
Kabir, how can I tell thee, the extent of the joy of the Lord's lotus feet?
Its sublimity can be described not. it can only be seen and realised.
Kabir, seeing my Lord, how can I describe Him? No one can be satisfied with my words.
As God is, so is He Himself alone. I abide in the delight of singing His praises.
Kabir, the flamingo pecks, at her feet and remembers her offspring. As she pecks and pecks, she again remembers her offspring.
As the offspring are dear to the flamingo so is the love of wealth to thy mind, O man.
Kabir, the sky is overcast with clouds and the lakes and tanks are filled with the rain-water.
They, who remain thirsty like the pied cuckoo; what would their condition be?
Kabir, the sheldrake, which is separated for the night from her love, comes and meets him in the morning.
The men, who are separated from the Lord, meet Him neither in the day nor in the night.
Kabir, O conch, remain thou in the ocean; separating from it,
otherwise, thou shall have to give out scream at sun rise at every temple.
Kabir what do you do by sleeping? Wakeup and weep over the fear and pain of death.
They, whose abode is in the grave, how can they sleep in peace?
Kabir, what does thou do by sleeping. Why wakeup and contemplate on God, the enemy of ego?
One day thou shall sleep, stretching out thine knees at full-length.
Kabir, what does thou do by sleeping? Thou wakeup and keep sitting.
He from whose company thou are separated, to Him attach thou thyself.
Kabir, leave thou not the association of the saint and walk thou on his path.
Seeing him thou shall be purified and meeting with him, thou shall begin to recite the Lord's Name.
Kabir, associate thou not with the infidel and flee far away from him.
If thou touch a black vessel, then, some blot must attach to thee.
Kabir, thou have not contemplated thy Lord and the old age has come upon thee.
Now when the door of thy mansion is on fire; what can be taken out?
Kabir, the work, which the Creator does, that alone is accomplished.
Without Him there is not another. He alone is the Creator of all.
Kabir, when the fruit trees being to bear fruit and the mangos begin to ripe.
They reach the owner, if the crows eat them not in the meantime.
Kabir, men purchase and worship the god-idol and through their mind's obstinacy go on pilgrimage.
Seeing one another, they wear religious robes, go astray and wander at large.
Kabir, setting up stone as god, all the mortal worship it.
They, who abide in this belief, are drowned in the sable stream.
Kabir, the religious books form the prison and the ink of rituals its shutters.
The stone-gods have drowned the world and the Pandits have plundered it on the way.
Kabir, do now, what have thou to do tomorrow and do that forthwith, what thou have to do now.
Nothing would be done hereinafter, when the death hangs over thy head.
Kabir, I have seen such a man, who is like the washed wax.
He appears to be clever and very virtuous, however, he is without understanding and unchaste.
Kabir, death's myrmidon shall disgrace not my understanding.
I have meditated on that Lord, the Cherisher who has created this myrmidon of death.
Kabir, God has become like musk and all his slaves have become bumble-bees.
The more Kabir contemplates his Lord, the more, the Lord abides within his mind.
Kabir, man has fallen into the grip of family and the Lord has been set aside.
The myrmidons of the Righteous Judge, descend on the mortal in the midst of his pomp.
Kabir, better than an infidel is a swine, which keeps the village clean.
When he, the wretched materialist dies, no one even mentions his name.
Kabir, gathering shell by shell, man amasses lacs and millions.
But at the time of departure, he gets nothing. Even his lion-piece is torn away from him.
Kabir, what does it avail a man to become the follower of Vishnu and wear four rosaries?
Externally he is gold twelve times purified, however, from within, he is stuffed with dust.
Kabir, be thou the brick-piece of the way and lay aside thy mental ego.
If there be such a slave; him meets the Illustrious Lord.
Kabir, to what avail is to be a gravel when it causes trouble to the way-farer.
O Lord, such ought to be Thy servant, as the dust of the earth.
Kabir, what avail is the becoming dust by a man, which scatters and then attaches to the body limbs.
God's slave should be such, as is the water that cleanses all limbs.
Kabir, what then it one becomes like water? It becomes cold and hot.
God's serf ought to be such, as God Himself is.
The flags wave on the top of the lofty mansions full of gold and of damsels.
However, better than them is the bare bread, eating which, mortal sings the Lord's praises in the saints congregation.
Kabir, better than a city is the wilderness, in which place abides the Lord's saint.
The city without my Beloved Lord, is for me the city of death.
Kabir, in between the Ganges and the Yama; at the ferry of celestial stillness,
there Kabir has make his abode, wherein the silent-sages and the God's slaves seek the way.
Kabir! If a man continues to love God to the end in the way as he pledged in the beginning,
to him not equal even a millions of emeralds, what to say one poor jewel.
Kabir, I saw a strange thing. A jewel was being sold at a shop.
In the absence of a customer, it was going in exchange for a shell.
Kabir! Where there is Divine Knowledge, there is virtue and where there is falsehood, there is sin.
Where there is avarice, there is death and where there is forgiveness, there is God Himself.
Kabir, what of what avail is the abandonment of mammon, if man abandons not his self-conceit.
The sages and the sublime saints are destroyed by ego, the ego eats up all.
Kabir, the True Satguru has met me, and he has aimed the arrow of God's name at me.
As soon as it struck me, I fell On the ground with the hole make in my heart.
Kabir, what can the True Guru, do, when his disciples are at fault,
and not even the one word of the Guru is imbibed by the blind man? It is like blowing into a bamboo.
Kabir, the queen of a sovereign, who has good many horses, elephants and carriages;
equals not even the female water-carrier of a slave of God.
Kabir, why slander thou the bride of a King and why honour thou the God's maid?
Because the one, arranges the partings of her hair for vice, while the latter, remember the God's Name.
Kabir, obtaining the support of the Lord's Name, I have become stable and the True Guru, has blessed me with courage.
Kabir, I have purchased the jewel of the Lord's Name on the bank of the Mansrover lake.
Kabir, God is the jewel and His slave the jeweler, who has taken the jewel and has set up a shop.
As soon as an assayer is found just then the price of the jewels is obtained.
Kabir, just as thou remember God, when necessity arises, so thou should remember Him always.
Thiswise thou shall abide in the immortal city and God shall restore thee the wealth, that thou have lost.
Kabir, for performing service, only the two personalities are sublime, one the saint and another the Lord;
the Lord who is the Giver of salvation and the saint, who makes man recite the name.
Kabir, crowds follow the path, the Pandits have traversed.
There is an arduous cliff on the way to the Lord, Kabir is scaling that cliff.
Kabir, man labours because of anxiety for his family and thus dies of the worldly troubles.
Whose family shall then be dishonoured, when he is the placed on the cremation ground?
Kabir, O wretched man, thou shall be drowned through undue regard for the opinion of many men.
Know thou that the fate, which has befallen thy neighbour, shall also come upon thee.
Kabir, good is the coarse bread, made of various kinds of corn.
I have no claim whatever on anyone for it. Great is the country and great the empire where I can go for it.
Kabir, heart-burning arises by asserting claim. One without claim remains care-free.
The man, who makes no claim, considers lnder-god and poor person alike.
Kabir, the entire tank is filled to the brim, however, no one can drink water therefrom.
By great good fortune thou have found it. Drink thou it in handfuls, O Kabir.
Kabir, as the stars disappear in morn, so does this body disappear.
But these two letters of God disappear not, To them, Kabir is holding fast.
Kabir, the house, of wood is on fire on ten sides.
The learned Brahmans have been burnt to death, while the illiterate persons have fled to safety.
Kabir! Cast off thou thy doubt and let go thy paper knowledge, wash off in flood.
Imbibing the essence of the fifty-two letters, fix thou thy mind on the God's feet.
Kabir, the saint abandons not his saintliness, even though, he meets with millions of impious persons.
Even when sandal is entwined with serpents, it leaves not its coolness.
Kabir obtaining the Lord's knowledge, my mind has become refreshed.
The fire that has burnt the world, that fire is like water to the Lord's slave.
Kabir, the world is the Creator Lord's play, but no one understands it.
Either the Master Himself, or one who is the slave of His court, understand it.
Kabir, it is good, that I feel my Lord's fear and have forgotten everything else.
Kabir, from hail, I have melted into water and flowing on, I have merged with my Lord, the ocean.
Kabir, collecting dust, the Lord has made the body like a physician's powder.
It is but four days play, ultimately, dust shall return to dust.
Kabir, all the bodies are like the rising and setting of the sun and the moon.
However, without meeting with the Guru God, they all turn into dust again.
Where there is the fear-free Lord, no fear is there; where there is fear, the God comes not there.
Deliberating over this in his mind, Kabir says thus. Hear! O saints.
Kabir! They who know not; they pass their time in the sleep of peace.
I, who have understood the riddle, am face to face with a whole host of troubles.
Kabir! The evil persons weep much, however, different is the weeping of the saints.
Smitten with the stroke of God, love on the mysterious organ, Kabir fell at the spot.
Kabir! Illustrious is the stroke of a lance, it draws out the breath as soon as it strikes.
He who endures the stroke of the Guru's word, he is the Guru and I his slave.
Kabir, why does Mulla go up a minaret (to make loud sound)? The Lord is not deaf.
For whose sake, thou make a loud prayer-call, He is in your heart.
Why should the Shaikh, who is without contentment, go for a pilgrimage to Mecca?
He, whose mind is not whole, how can he attain unto his God?
Kabir, perform thou the meditation of thy God, contemplating whom, the troubles depart.
The Lord shall become manifest within thy mind and thy burning fire shall be quenched.
Kabir, to use force is tyranny, even if it be lawful.
When thy account is called in the Lord's court then what shall be thy condition?
Kabir sublime is the dinner of rice of pulse boiled together, wherein there is delicious salt.
Who will have his throat cut for meat with his bread?
Kabir, then alone the Guru is deemed to have touched the heart, if man's worldly love and bodily ailments are effaced.
Weal and woe burn him not and then he becomes God himself.
Kabir! There is a secret in worshipping 'Ram'; Therein lies a point worthy of consideration.
The same word, every one uses for Dasrath's son and the same word for the Wondrous Lord.
Kabir, Him alone call thou 'Ram' who is Omnipresent. We should discriminate between the two while mentioning them.
One 'Ram', 'the God', is pervading amongst all, while the other Ram Chander is contained in himself alone.
Kabir, the houses, in which the saints are not served nor God is contemplated;
those houses are like the cremation ground and demons dwell within them.
Kabir, I have become dumb, insane and my ears are blocked,
and I have also become lame-footed, for the True Guru has pierced me with his arrow.
Kabir, the warrior True Guru has shout an arrow at me.
As soon as it struck me, I fell to the ground and a hole was make in my heart.
Kabir, the immaculate drop from the sky has fallen on the filthy ground.
Consider it this way, that without the saints' association, it becomes, like the ashes of furnace.
Kabir, the pure rain-drop of heaven mixes with the dust.
Millions of wise men have striven and failed. It can be separated not.
Kabir, I was going on a pilgrimage to the Mecca and God met me on the way.
The Lord started quarrelling with me, saying, 'who did tell thee that I am at that place alone'.
Kabir, I have often made pilgrimage to the Kabba. How many times, O Kabir?
O Lord, what fault is there in me, that Thou, O my spiritual guide, speak not to me with Thy mouth?
Kabir, they who kill the beings perforce and call that righteous.
When the Lord would take out the account of His office, what shall their condition be?
Kabir, to use force, this is tyranny and the Lord shall call the to account.
When thy account is produced from the Lord's office, thou shall suffer strokes on thy face and mouth.
Kabir, easy it is to render an account, If there be purity within the mind.
In that True court, no one shall then seize thee by the skirt.
Kabir, O duality, thou are greatly indestructible in earth and sky.
The six Shashtras and the eighty-four adepts are involved in doubt.
Kabir, nothing is mine within me. What-ever there is that is Thine O Lord.
If I surrender unto Thee, what is Thine, what does it cost me?
Kabir, repeating "Thy Name" I have become like 'Thee'. In me now "I" has remained not.
When difference between others and myself has been removed, then wheresoever I see, there I see but Thee, O Lord.
Kabir, they who think of evil and entertain false hopes.
None of their desires is fulfilled and depart they in despair.
Kabir, whosoever embraces God's meditation, he alone is happy in this world.
He, whom the Creator-Lord protects, wavers not ever, here or hereafter.
Kabir, I was being crushed like a handful of sesame, but the True Guru has saved me.
My primal and ancient love of the Lord has now become manifest.
Kabir, my day is gone in evading the payment of my debt to the Lord and the interest continues to increases.
I have contemplated not my God, nor is my account torn up and the moment of my death has arrived.
5th Guru.
Kabir, man is a barking dog, which runs after a skeleton.
By the Lord's grace, I have obtained the True Guru, who has delivered me.
5th Guru.
Kabir, the earth belongs to the saints, however, the thieves have occupied it.
The earth feels not their burden and to them it is a clear gain.
5th Guru.
Kabir, on account of husk, the rice is beaten with a mallet.
Similarly when men sit in bad company, then, the Righteous Lord calls them to account.
O Nam Dev, mammon has bewitched thee, says his friend Tirlochan.
Why print thou chintzes and why thou not fix thy mind on the Lord?
Says Nam Dev, "O Tirlochan recite thou thy Lord's Name with the mouth".
With thine hands and feet, you may perform all Gobs, however, let thy mind be with the immaculate Lord.
5th Guru.
Kabir, no one is mine, nor belong I to any one.
He, who has created this creation; in Him am I merged.
Kabir, the flour has fallen into the mud and nothing has come into one's hand.
That alone, which he chewed while it was being grounded avails the mortal.
Kabir, man knows everything and knowingly commits he sins.
What use is it to have a lamp in his hand, if the man still falls into a well?
Kabir, I am in love with my Omniscient Lord. The ignorant ones restrain me.
How can I break with Him, with whom belong my soul and vital-breath?
Kabir, why harm thyself with excessive love and decoration of thine home and temples?
Three and a halt or at the most three and three quarters cubes of land shall be of avail unto thee.
Kabir, the Lord does not do according to my desire. What can be achieved by my desiring?
The God does what He Himself desires (as per His will) and not according to what is on my mind.
3rd Guru.
God Himself produced anxiety in man and Himself frees him from anxiety.
Nanak, praise thou Him, who takes care of all.
5th Guru.
Kabir, man contemplates not his Lord and wanders about engrossed in greed.
He dies committing sins and his life comes to and end in a moment.
Kabir, the body is an earthen vessel or only a frail metal.
If thou wish to keep it whole then remember thou thy Lord, otherwise this thing shall perish.
Kabir, recite thou the Name of the Beautifully-haired Lord and sleep not heedlessly.
Calling out the Name, night and day, the Lord shall sometime hear the cry.
Kabir, the body is garden of plantains and the mind is an elephant, intoxicated with the wine of worldliness.
The jewel of Divine knowledge is the goad and some rare saint is the elephant-driver.
Kabir, Lord is the emerald and mouth its purse. Open thou the purse only before an assayer.
If any purchaser be found, he would take it, at a very high price.
Kabir, man knows not the Lord's Name, however, he has brought up a very big family.
He dies in the midst of worldly affairs and is heard no more in the outer world.
O Kabir, the life passes away, in the blinking moment of an eye and moment by moment.
Man leaves not his entanglements and death's courier walks in and beats his drum.
Kabir, the Lord is as a tree and the Lord's love is like its fruit.
The saint, who has abandoned vain strifes, is like its shade.
Kabir, sow thou the seed of such a plant, which bears fruit throughout the twelve months of year,
and whose shade is cool, fruits are abundant and on which the birds joyously play.
Kabir, the Beneficent Lord is the Tree, whose fruit is compassion and who does good to all the beings.
On migrating to another country, birds say 'O tree, may thou bear sublime fruits'.
Kabir, if it be so writ on his brow, then man is blessed with the saints' society.
Thiswise the wealth of emancipation is attained and the difficult road to God is obstructed not.
Kabir, even for a ghari, half a ghari, or even half of that;
divine discourse with the saints, whatever is done, that is the net again. (Note: 1 ghari =24 minutes).
Kabir, whosoever of the mortals partake of meat, fish and wine.
Whatever pilgrimages, fasting and daily rites they may perform, they all go to hell.
I keep my eyes down and enshrine my friend within my mind.
I enjoy every pleasure with my Beloved and disclose it to none.
For the eight watches and sixty-four gharis of time (all the time), my soul continues to look towards Thee, O Lord.
Why should I cast down my eyes, since I see my Beloved in every heart?
Hear! O my mate, my soul abides in my Love, or rather my Lord abides in my soul.
Now I realise that there is no difference between my soul and my Love. Hence, I can say not, whether my soul abides in my heart or my Lord.
Kabir, the Brahman may be the Guru of the world, however, he is not the Guru of the saints.
He rots to death in the perplexities of the four Vedas.
God is like sugar, scattered in the sand. An elephant can not pick it up.
Says Kabir, the Guru has given me this sublime secret; that is to become like an ant and then partake of it.
Kabir, if thou desire to play the game of the Lord's love, then, cut off thou, thy head and make it into a ball.
Playing, and playing, be thou lost in it and then let happen what happen.
Kabir, if thou desire thy Beloved, then play thou with the True Guru.
Pressing of the unripe mustard yields neither oil-cake nor oil.
Searching for God, man stumbles like the blind one and recognises not the saints.
Says Nam Dev, how can one obtain the Illustrious Lord without His saint?
Forsaking the jewel-like God, they who pin their hope on another.
Those persons shall go to hell, verily, says Rav Dass.
Kabir, if thou are embracing a domestic life, practise righteousness; otherwise renounce the world.
If the world-renouncer is involved in worldly entanglements; great is his misfortune.
Saloks of Shaikh Farid.
There is but one God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
On the day, the women enters into the body, the time of her wedding is writ.
On the day of wedding, the myrmidon of death, of whom she had heard with her ears, comes and shows his face.
Breaking the bones, the poor soul is taken out of the body.
The recorded time of marriage cannot the altered. Explain thou this unto thy soul.
The soul is the bride and death her Groom. he will marry her and take her away.
Sending her with its own hands, whose neck shall the body run to embrace?
Finer than even a hair is the bridge of hell. Have thou not heard of it with thine ears?
Farid! The call is about to come, beware and do not get robbed.
Farid! Difficult, is the saintship of the Lord's door. May I therefore walk in the way of the world?
I have tied the bundle of the Lord's meditation and lifted over my head, now, how can I go anywhere without it?
I see nothing and know nothing, as the world is a smoldering fire.
My Lord did well to warn me, otherwise, I too would have been burnt.
Farid! If I had known that the breaths in my procession are so few, I would have carefully filled my handfuls.
If I had known, that my spouse was so young, then, I would have taken less pride.
If I had knows that my skirt would be broken loose, I would have put a fast knot.
As great as Thou, O Lord, I have found none. I have seen and searched the whole world.
Farid! If thou have keen understanding, then do not black write against others.
Bend thy head and look beneath thine own collar.
Farid! To those who beat thee with fists; do not return them beating turning around.
Kiss thou their feet and go to thy own house.
Farid! When there is time to earn salvation, then thou are in love with the world.
Death's foundation is strong, when the cup of breaths is filled, then, the soul is loaded oft.
See O Farid! What has happened? Thy beard had grown grey.
Therefore, the future is near and the past is left far behind.
See O Farid! What has happened? The sugar has become poison.
Without my Lord, to whom should I tell my sorrow?
Seeing my eyes have become week and hearing, and haring mine ears have become deaf.
The crop of the body has become ripe and has assumed another colour.
Farid! They, who enjoy not their spouse, when their hair are black; never enjoy Him, when their hair are grey.
Love thy Lord, that thou may have fresh colour.
3rd Guru.
Farid! Whether one's hair is black or grey, the Lord is ever there, if anyone remembers Him.
By one's embracing, the love for the Lord is embraced not, even though, all may long for it.
This cup of love belongs to the Lord. He given it to him whom He likes.
Farid! The eyes, which charmed the world; those eyes I have seen.
They could endure not the streak of collyrium, but now the birds have hatched their young in them.
Farid! The saints shout, shriek and give good advice always.
They whom the devil has spoiled, who can they turn their mind towards God?
Farid! You become the spear grass of the path way,
if thou long for the Lord of all.
When one breaks thee and another tramples on thee,
then alone shall thou enter the Lord's Court.
Farid! Slander not the dust; nothing is so great as dust.
When man is alive, it is under his feet and when he is dead, it is over him.
Farid! When there is avarice, what love can there be then? If there is avarice, then false is the love.
How long can one pass the time in a broken cottage in the rain?
Farid! Why wander thou from forest to forest breaking down the thorns of the trees?
The Lord abides in the heart, why then seek Him in the forest?
Farid! With these small legs, I have traversed across deserts and mountains.
However, today, to Farid, his jug appears at a distance of hundreds of miles.
Farid! Long are the nights and the sides of my body ache and ache.
Accursed is the life of those, whose hope rests on others.
Farid! If I had been present, when my friend came, I would have sacrificed myself unto him.
Now my flesh burns like the madder on the burning coal.
Farid! The farmer plants the tree of Acasia arabica and desires the grapes of Bijour.
He goes about spinning wool, however, he wishes to wear silk.
Farid! The lanes are mud-ridden and the house of my Beloved, whom I love, is far away.
If I go, then my blanket shall be drenched and if I remain at home, then, my love shall sever.
However, let my blanket be wetted and drenched with the down pour of the Lord's rain.
I will go and meet that friend, so that my love may be severed not.
Farid! I am worried about my turban lest it should be soiled.
However, my thoughtless soul is unaware that dust will eat my head too.
Farid! Unrefined sugar, loaf sugar, molasses, honey and buffalo's milk,
all these things are sweet, however, O Lord, they equal Thee not.
Farid! My bread is the wooden-pot and the hunger is my cooked vegetable.
They, who eat buttered bread, shall suffer great pain.
Eat thou the coarse dry bread and drink the cold water.
Farid! Seeing another's buttered bread let not thy mind long for it.
I slept not with my spouse during the night and every part of my body is pining in pain.
Go and ask thou the deserted one, as to how does she passes her night.
She finds no refuge in the house of her father-in-law and also no place in her parents.
Her Groom cares not for her, although she is known as a blessed and happily married wife.
Here and hereafter, the bride belongs to her Groom; the Groom who is Unapproachable and Unfathomable.
Nanak, she alone is the happy bride, who is pleasing to her care-free Lord.
Bathing, washing and bedecking herself, she comes and sleeps without care,
and she remains smeared with asafoetida and loses the fragrance of musk. Farid!
I fear not the departure of my youth, if my Bridegroom's love departs not.
Farid! Myriad of youth have withered and dried up without the Lord's love.
Farid! Anxiety is my cot, affliction is my bottom and pangs of separation from God my bedding and quilt.
This is my life, see Thou, O my True Lord.
Men, talk of the Lord's love and its pangs. O the Lord's pangs thou are the monarch of all.
Farid! The body, in which the Lord's love blossoms not, that body should be considered as the cremation ground.
Farid! These pleasures are the poisonous sprouts, coated with sugar.
Some die sowing sins and some are ruined, reaping and enjoying them.
Farid! Men lose four watches of the day in wandering and the four of the night in sleep.
God will call for thine account and ask of thee the purpose for which thou come into the world?
Farid! Going to the door of the court, why have thou not seen the gong?
The sinless in being beaten, what shall be the condition of us, the sinners?
Every ghari, it is beaten and every watch, it receives punishment.
The beauteous body is like the bell and passes the night in pain.
Shaikh Farid has grown old and his body has begun to tremble.
Even if he lives for hundreds of years, his body shall ultimately become dust.
My Lord, make Thou me not sit at another's door, begs Farid.
If Thou are to keep me thiswise then, take Thou out the life from my body.
With an axe on him shoulder and water-pot on his head, the blacksmith is ready to cut (standing on the head).
Farid! I long for my Spouse and thou long for charcoal.
Farid! Some have a good deal of flour and some do not have even the salt.
When they both go into the yond, it shall then be known, who shall suffer the strokes?
They, who had drums and trumpets and umbrellas over their heads and whose praises the bards sang;
They have gone to sleep in the cemetery and are buried like orphans.
Farid! Those who built houses, mansions and lofty buildings, they have also departed.
They transacted false business and dropped into graves.
Farid! There are many tacks on the patched coat, but there are no tacks on the soul.
All the shaikhs and their disciples have departed, each on his own turn.
Farid! While the two lamps of the eyes are alight, the death's courier comes and seats himself.
He captures the fortress, robs if of the soul and having put out the lamps, departs.
Farid! See what has happened to cotton and what has befallen to the sesame's head,
and what has been the state of sugar-cane, paper, earthen utensils and the charcoal?
They who commit evil deeds; thiswise are they punished.
Farid! On thy shoulder is the prayer-mat, on thy body the devotee's garb and thou speak sweetly, however, there is scalpel in thy heart.
From without, thou appear bright, but in thy heart, is the sable night.
Farid! If any one cuts my body, not even a bit of blood would flow from it.
The bodies, which are imbued with God; those bodies contain no blood.
3rd Guru.
This body is all blood. Without blood, this body can exit not.
They, who are imbued with their spouse, they have not the blood of greed in their body.
When the Lord's fear enters into the body it grows lean and the blood of avarice departs from within.
As is the metal purified by fire, so does the Lord's fear remove the filth of evil inclinations.
Nanak, beauteous are the persons, who are imbued with their God's love.
Farid! Search that tank, where the 'Real' thing is to be found.
What avails it to search in a pond? Man's hand merely sinks into the mud.
Farid! The bride enjoys not her spouse when she is young, and as grows old dies.
Lying in the grave, the bride cries, "I could met Thee not, O my Spouse".
Farid! The hair of head is grey, my bread is grey and my moustaches are also grey.
O my thoughtless and insane soul, why thou enjoy revelments?
Farid! How long can thou run on the top of house? Abandon thy sleep for thy love.
The numbered days, which were allotted to thee, they have passed away, by passing day by day.
Farid! Do not attach  thy mind to houses, mansions and balconies,
as when unweighable dust falls upon thee, none of these shall befriend thee.
Farid! Set not thou thy heart on palaces and wealth and think thou ever of the powerful death.
Remember thou that place, where thou have to go.
Farid! Abandon all those deeds, which are of no avail,
lest thou be put to shame in the court of the Lord.
Farid! Perform thou the service of thy Lord and dispel the doubt of thy mind.
The saints ought to have the endurance like the trees.
Farid! Black are my clothes and black is my vestment.
I wander about soiled by sins and people call me a saint.
The crop that is destroyed by water, can never bloom even if it be kept dipped in water.
Farid! She, who is forsaken by God, continues to repent and grieve.
When the girl is a virgin, then she is full of desire and when she is married, then begin her troubles.
Farid! She has this regret, that she cannot be a virgin again.
The swans have alighted in a small pond of saline water.
They dip in their bills, but drink not, and fly away thirsty.
Flying away, the swans alight on the barley-farm and men go to drive them away.
The headless mortals know not, that the swans eat not the coarse grain.
The birds, which peopled the pools, have flown away.
Farid! The brimful lake shall also pass away and lotus flowers alone shall remain.
Farid! Brick shall be thy pillow, the earth thy bed to sleep and the worms shall eat thy flesh.
Good many ages shall pass away and thou shall continue to lye on one side.
Farid the beauteous body pitcher, shall break and the sublime rope of breath shall be snapped.
In whose house shall Azaril, the death's courier, be the guest today?
Farid! The beauteous body pitcher shall break and the sublime rope of breath shall sunder.
The friends, who were a burden on the earth, how can they return today?
Farid! You are like a dog who does no prayer; this is not a good habit on thine.
Thou come not ever to the mosque five times a day for prayer.
Farid! Wake up and perform thy ablution and say thy morning prayer.
The head, which bows not to the Lord, chop off the remove thou that head.
The head, which bows not to the Lord, what is to be done with such a head?
Burn it thou under the earthen pot, in place of fire-wood.
Farid! Today, where are thy parents who gave you birth?
They have departed from thee, even then, thou are not convinced that thou too shall die.
Farid! Make thy mind even by smoothing hollows and heaps.
The fire of hell shall not ever approach thee thereafter.
5th Guru.
Farid! The Creator abides in creation and the creation abides in Creator.
When there is none without Him, whom should we call as bad?
Farid! If my throat too had been cut a bit on the day my navel string was cut,
I should not have fallen into so many troubles nor undergone so many hardships.
My teeth, feet, eyes, and ears; they have ceases their functions.
my body cried out a loud lamentation, " those intimates of mine have abandoned me".
Farid! Do good deeds for evil and harbour not wrath in thy mind.
Thy body shall be infested with no disease and thou shall obtain everything.
Farid! The soul-bird is a guest in the beauteous world garden.
The drum of the morn beats. Make thou preparation for thy departure.
Farid! The musk is spread (in air) at night, and they, who remain asleep get not a share.
They, whose eyes are heavy with sleep, how can they be blessed with it?
Farid! I thought, I alone was in trouble, however, in fact the whole world is in trouble.
When I looked around from an elevation, then did I find the same fire in every house.
5th Guru.
Farid! In the midst of the beauteous world there is a thorny garden.
the persons, who are blessed by the Guru, suffer not even a scratch.
5th Guru.
Farid beauteous is the life, together with the charming body.
Only few such persons are found, who love their Beloved.
O river-flood, destroy thou not thy bank. Thou too have to give an account.
The river-flood flows in the direction, as is the will of God.
Farid! My day passes in trouble and my night in anguish.
The boatman stands up and shouts, "The ship is in the midst of the whirl-pool".
Long, the long river of life flows and if loves to eat into its banks.
What can the whirl-pool do unto the boat, if the boatman remains alert?
Farid! There are twenty friends who provide lip service, however, if I search for the true friend, I find not even one.
I smoulder like cow-dung for that beloved of mine.
Farid! This body is ever barking; who can stand this continuous suffering?
I have put stoppers in mine ears. I care not how much wind is blowing.
Farid! God's dates have ripened and streams of honey flow.
Each day that passes steals away mortal's age.
Farid! My aged frail body has become a skeleton and the crows peck at my palms.
Even till now, God has not come to my aid, see thou, that such is the fate of the man.
The crows have searched my skeleton and eaten up all flesh.
O crows! Touch ye not these two eyes, as I hope to behold my Beloved.
O Crow, corrode thou not my skeleton. If thou have perched upon it, then fly thou away.
The skeleton, wherein dwells my spouse, eat thou not flesh therefrom.
Farid! The poor grave calls out, "O homeless come to thy Home".
Thou shall assuredly come to me, so fear not thy death.
Within the sight of these eyes of mine good many have departed.
Farid! People have their own anxieties and I have my own.
Says the Lord, "If O man, thou reform thyself, thou shall meet me.
and if you belong to me, the whole world shall belong to thee", says Farid.
How long can the tree remain stable on the river-bank?
Farid! For how long, can the water be kept in unbaked earthen vessel?
Farid! The mansions have been emptied and their occupants have gone to abide below the earth (in the graves).
Those unhonoured graves shall be taken possession of by the souls.
Thou recite Lord's Name, as thou shall depart today or tomorrow (sooner or later).
The shore of death looks like the eroded bank of a river.
Beyond is the burning hell where the cries of shrieks and wailings are heard there.
Some understand it fully while some still wander about heedlessly.
The deeds, which man does in the world, they bear witness in the Lord's Court.
Farid! Sitting on the river-bank, the crane joyfully sports.
While the crane is engaged in sport, the hawk pounces upon it unexpectedly.
Yea, when the hawk of that God strikes, it forgets the sports.
What was not even remotely contemplated in his mind even those things, the Lord has manifest.
The body of three and a half maunds, lives on water and grain.
Entertaining high hopes, the mortal had come into the world.
However, when the Death's myrmidon comes he breaks open all the doors.
He binds down the mortal, before the very eyes of those dear brothers of his.
See! The mortal (his dead body) is going on the shoulders of four men.
Farid! Only the good deeds, which he did in the world, would be of avail to him in the Lord's Court.
Farid! I am a sacrifice unto those birds that live in the woods.
For, they peck at roots, live on the ground and leave not the Lord's side.
Farid! The season has changed, the woods shake and the leaves continually drop off.
I have searched the four directions and have not found a stable abode anywhere.
Farid! Tearing off all my robes into tatters, I just wear a blanket.
I wear that dress alone by wearing which my Spouse is met.
3rd Guru.
Why thou tear thy rich riament and wear a blanket?
If thou put thy mind on the right path, then, even while seated at home, thou shall meet with the Groom, O Nanak.
5th Guru.
Farid! They, who greatly pride on their greatness, wealth and youth;
they come empty-handed from their Master, like a mound after the rain.
Farid! dreadful are the faces of those who forget the Lord's Name.
Here, they undergo many troubles and, hereafter, find no abode and refuge.
Farid! If thou wake not in the closing hours of the night, thou are like dead even while alive.
Although thou have forgotten thy Lord, even then, the Lord has forgotten thee not.
5th Guru.
Farid! Mirthful is my Spouse, He is altogether care-free.
To be imbued with the Lord; this alone is the most befitting decoration.
5th Guru.
Farid deem thou pain and pleasure as the same and banish sin from thy mind.
Whatever pleases God, that alone is good. Then alone shall thou attain to His Court.
5th Guru.
Farid! The world dances as the devil makes it dance and thou too are playing with it;
that person alone dances not, who is under the Lord's care.
5th Guru.
Farid! The mind is imbued with this world, but the world is of no avail.
Difficult it is to be like the saints. That position is obtained only through perfect deeds.
The Lord's meditation in its first watch yields flowers, while the latter watches of the night, yield the fruits as well.
They, who remain awake, obtain gifts from the Lord.
All bounties are of the Lord; however, who can force Him to grant them?
Some, who are awake, receive them not, while, some He Himself wakes from sleep and blesses them with gifts.
Thou, who is searching for thy Groom, must have some fault in the body.
They, who are called chaste brides, cherish not hope of another.
In thy mind, make patience a bow, and patience a bow string,
and patience thine arrows; thus, the Creator will not allow thee to miss the mark.
The men of patience abide in patience. Thiswise, burn they their body's ego.
They come near the Lord, however, disclose not their secret to any one.
This patience is the aim of life, if somehow thou implant it in thy mind, O man.
Thiswise, thou grow into a big river however, breaking off, thou not even become a mere brooklet.
Farid! Difficult it is to practise sainthood, I love God only if it is buttered (fruitful).
Some rare one alone walks in the way of the saints.
My body is heated like an oven and my bones burn like fire-wood.
Were my feet to tire, I would walk on my head, if I can meet with my Beloved.
Heat thou not thy body like an oven and burn not thy bones like fire-wood.
What harm have thine head and feet done thee? See thy Love within thee.
I go searching for my Friend, however, my Friend is ever with me.
Nanak, the Unseen Lord is seen not; the Exalted Guru shows Him to the mortal.
Seeing the swans swimming, the cranes too were enthused.
The poor cranes were drowned to death with their heads below and their feet above.
I deemed him to be a great Swan, therefore, I associated with him,
If I had known, that this was only a wretched crane, I would not have touched him with my limb from the beginning.
What does it matter, whether, he, on whom God casts His merciful glance, is a swan or a crane?
If it pleases Him, O Nanak, He changes a crow into a swan.
In the lake there is but one bird, however, there are fifty snarers.
This body is caught in the waves of desires. O True Lord, my hope is in Thee alone.
What is that word, what is that virtue and what is that jewel-like spell?
What is the dress, which I may wear, by which I may captivate my spouse?
Humility is the world, forgiveness the virtue and sweetness of tongue the jewel-like spell.
Wear thou these three robes, O my sister, then alone thy Spouse would come under thy hold.
If one be simple, even when wise,
be powerless, even when blessed with power,
and shares with others, even when there is almost naught to share;
only some such a rare one is called a saint.
Recite thou not even a single harsh word, since thy True Master abides amongst all,
Break thou not any one's heart as invaluable are all these jewels.
Precious like jewels are the minds of all. To hurt them is not at all good.
If thou desire thy Beloved, then do not hurt any one's heart.
There is but one God. True is His Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His form. He is without fear, sans enmity, beyond birth and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
Saways recited in person by the sire, 5th Guru.
O my primal Lord, the Creator, Thou Thyself are the Doer of all the deeds.
Thou are fully filling all and are contained in all hearts.
O God, Thou are seen pervading the world. Who can know Thine state? Thou protect all and Thou Thyself are their Lord.
O my Imperishable and Formless Lord, Thou are born of Thyself.
Thou are but One. None else is like Thee.
O Lord, Thou have no end and limit. Who can from Thine conception? Thou are the Father of the world and the support of all life.
O Lord, how can Thy slave Nanak, recite with his one tongue the praise of the saint, who is poised at Thy door and is like Thee?
I am a sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice and ever a sacrifice unto him.
O Lord, the streams of Nectar flow at thy door, brimful are Thine unweighable treasures and Thou are Infinite, Beauteous, Sublime and the remotest of the remote.
Thou do what pleases Thee, take not the counsel of another and in Thy Home, creation and destruction occur in am instant.
My Lord God, none else is equal to Thee, immaculate is Thy light and reciting Thy Name, millions of sins are washed off.
O Lord, how can Thy slave Nanak recite with his one tongue, the praise of the saint, who is poised at Thy door and is like Thee?
I am a sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, and ever a sacrifice unto him.
Thou, O Lord, have installed all the world's from within Thee alone, Thou have extended them. Thou are fully contained amongst them all and yet Thou Thyself remain detached.
O my Unique and Unseeable Lord, the Enemy of ago, Thou are the giver of all and there is no limit and end to Thine virtues. All the creatures belong to Thee.
The Lord Himself upholds the universe and shows His Omnipotence, He has no hue, form, mouth and bread.
O Lord, how can Thy slave Nanak recite with his one tongue the praises of that saint, who is poised at Thy door and is like Thee?
I am a sacrifice, yea, a sacrifice, and ever a sacrifice unto him.
My Lord, Thou are the treasure of all virtues. No one can know the worth of Thine divine wisdom and meditation. The highest of the high is known to be Thy seat.
My Lord, my soul, riches and vital-breath belong to Thee. Thou have strung the world in the one thread of Thy system. What praise should I attribute to Thee? Thou are the greatest of the great.
O My Incomprehensible and Infinite Luminous Lord, who can know Thy secret? Inconceivable is Thy power and Thou are the mainstay of all.
O Lord, how can Thy slave Nanak, with his one tongue, recite the praise of that saint who is poised at Thy door and is like Thee.
I ma a sacrifice, yea, a sacrifice, and ever a sacrifice unto him.
My Lord, Thou are Formless, Undeceivable, Perfect, and Imperishable,
and Ever in bliss, Ever in bloom, Illimitable, Beauteous, and Immaculate are Thou.
Countless are those who sing Thine praises, however, they know not even a bit of Thy limit.
He, unto whom Thou are merciful, O Lord, that person meets with Thee.
Blest, blest, and blest are the persons, on whom the Lord God has become merciful.
Whosoever meets with the Divine Guru Nanak, he is rid of both birth and death.
True, abidingly true and the truest of the true, my God is said to be.
He alone is heard to be the primal Lord, There is not another second like him.
Reciting the ambrosial Name of God, man is blessed with all the comforts.
They, who taste if with their tongue; those persons are sated and satiated.
He, with whom the Lord becomes pleased, he loves he congregation of the saints.
Whosoever meets with the God-incarnate Guru Nanak, he emancipates his entire lineage.
True is the Lord's congregation and His court. He has placed His True Name with the True Guru.
Sitting on the True Throne, He administers true justice.
The True Lord, of Himself, has created the world. He is infallible and errs not.
Priceless like the jewel is the Name of the Infinite Lord. The worth of the invaluable Name can be prized not.
On whomsoever the world-Lord becomes merciful, he alone obtains all the comfort.
They who touch the feet of Divine Guru Nanak, they are cast not into existences afterwards again.
What is the 'yoga, ' what the knowledge and contemplation and what the way, by which we can praise our Lord?
The adepts, the strivers and the thirty-three millions of gods, can find not even an iota of the Lord's worth.
Neither Brahma, nor Sanak nor the serpent-king, know the limit of His praises.
The Unseizable Lord can be seized not although, He is fully contained amongst all.
They, whose noose the merciful Master has cut off, those persons are attached to His meditation.
They, who meet with God and Guru Nanak, are ever emancipated here and hereafter.
I, the mumper, have sought the refuge of Lord, the Donor of the donors.
Bless Thou me with the bounty of the dust of the saints feet, attached to which I shall cross the dreadful world ocean.
If it pleases Thee, O Lord, hearken Thou to my prayer and supplication.
My mind's yearning is that thou may bless me with Thy vision, O Lord, this soul of mine abides in Thine meditation.
The Name's lamp is kindled in the midst of spiritual darkness. All the men of the Darkage are saved with the aid of the One Name.
The Guru-God, slave Nanak has become manifest in all the worlds of the Lord.
Swayas recited in person by the Sire, 5th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Perishable is my body and still it is bound to worldly love. I am foolish, stone-hearted, filthy and unwise.
My mind wanders and wabbles and is held not. It knows not the state of Supreme Lord.
I am intoxicated with the wine of youth, beauty and riches and wander about perplexed in great ego.
Another's wealth and another's wranglings, women and slander, these are sweet and dear unto my mind.
I make efforts to conceal my frauds, however, my Master, the Inner knower, sees and hears all.
I have no humility, faith, compassion or piety, however, I have sought Thy refuge, O the Giver of spiritual life.
God, the Lord of wealth, is Omnipotent to do everything, O the Master of Nanak, now save Thou him in Thy mercy.
To praise God, the soul-charmer and to seek His refuge, these are potent to dispel and destroy one's sins.
In every way All-powerful God is a ship for crossing the world ocean and He can emancipate the entire lineage of His slave.
O my headless soul, realise that the Lord in the saints' society, and contemplate on Him. Why wander thou beguiled by the darkness of doubt?
Meditate thou on God, even for a moment, half a moment, an instant and trice and, with thy tongue, recite thou the Lord's Name.
Bound with the worthless deeds and momentary pleasures, why wander thou amidst pain in millions of births?
O Nanak, by the saint's instruction, thou recite the Name and with hearty love, meditate on thy Lord.
Sowing a little sperm in the field of the mother's body, the Lord has created the priceless human body.
To enable him to enjoy pleasures, the Lord blesses man with articles of food and drink and mansions and wards off his pain and rids him of his calamity.
The entire understanding to recognise his mother, father, brothers and the Kinsmen, man has obtained from the Lord.
Day by day, the mortal is ever growing and the dreadful old age is drawing close to him.
O despicable and virtueless worm of wealth, contemplate on thy Lord even for a moment.
O the Ocean of compassion, my Merciful Master, Thou hold Nanak's hand and rid him of his load of doubt.
O my mind's mouse, living in thy body hole, thou pride on thyself and does the deeds of a great fool.
Thou sway with the swing of the cradle of riches and intoxicated with wealth, wander like an owl.
For thy own pleasure, thou are involved with thine sons, wife, friends and kinsmen and thy love for them immensely increases each day.
Thou have sown the seed of ego, and from it sprouted the plumule of mineness and thy life passes committing sins.
The cat of death is watching thee with his mouth wide-opened. Even while taking food, you are hungry due to desires (for more).
Says Nanak, in the saints' society, remember thou the Merciful Master, the Cherisher of the universe and deem the world to be just a dream.
Neither body, nor house, nor love; these last not for ever. Intoxicated with riches, how ling shall thou take pride on them?
Neither throne and crown, nor royal warrants, nor fly-brushes and their waveres shall stay. Thou remember not that thy life is passing off.
Neither chariots nor horses, elephants and royal throne shall remain stable. Leaving them off, in a moment, thou shall go completely naked.
Neither warrior, nor hero, nor king and duke; none of these is seen with the eyes going along with thee.
Neither fortress, nor treasures can emancipate thee. Committing sins, thou shall depart wiping off both thine hands.
The intimate, sons, wife, friends and mates stand not by thee. They change like the shade of the tree.
The Omnipotent and Omnipresent Lord is merciful to the meek. Every moment dwell thou upon thy Inaccessible and Infinite God.
O my Illustrious God, the Lord of Lakhshmi and the Master of all, slave Nanak has sought Thy refuge. Showering Thine benediction, now save Thou him.
Risking his life, selling his self-respect, receiving alms, committing highway robberies and embracing hearty love, the mortal amasses riches.
The friends, kinsmen, intimates sons and brothers, from them he keeps it concealed.
To obtain it, he runs about and practises falsehood, this wise, he becomes aged.
In the associating of mercurial mammon, he abandons virtuous deeds, self-control, piety, religious vows and all other good ways.
The animals, birds, trees and mountains; he very greatly wanders in such like existences a various ways.
Even for an instant, a trice and a moment, he remembers not the Name of God, the Master of the meek and the Lord of like of the whole world.
However, the articles of food and drink and the sweet savoury dishes become altogether bitter at the last moment.
Nanak, One is saved in the society of the saint's feet. Others who are intoxicated with wealth have to quit leaving behind everything.
Brahma and his likes, Shiva, the Vedas and the silent sages sing the Lord's praises with relish and love.
Indra, Vishnu and Gorakh, who sometimes land on earth and sometimes go to heaven, search and seek their Lord.
The perfect persons, men, Gods and demons can find not even an iota of His mystery.
God's slave, who is imbued with the love and affection of his lovable Lord and the relish of His meditation, merges in His vision.
Abandoning Him, he who asks from another's his mouth, teeth and tongue all wear off.
O my silly soul, thou contemplate on the Peace-Giving Lord. Slave Nanak instructs thee this wise.
The pleasure of worldly valuables fades off. Through doubt, the mortal falls into dark well of worldly love.
He prides so such, that he can be contained not even in the sky. His belly is filled with ordure, bones and worms.
For the sake of great poison, he runs in ten directions, snatches others wealth and is ultimately destroyed by ignorance.
His youth passes away, the ailment of old age seizes him, the death's myrimdon punishes him and he dies an ignoble death.
He suffers agony in the hell of many existences and putrefies in the pit of the pain of censure of the death's minister.
O Nanak, they alone, whom the saint mercifully makes his own, ferry across through the Lord's loving worship.
I am blessed with all virtues, all boons and my mind's desires and hopes too have been fulfilled.
The medicine and spell of the Lord's Name is efficacious to eradicate all ailments and it wholly removes the pain.
Reciting the Lord's Name, lust, wrath, ego, jealousy and craving are eradicated.
The enshrining of the Lord's lotus feet in the mind bestows the merit of ablution, charity, penance, piety and good actions.
The Lord God is my friend, intimate, mate and kinsman, He is the sustenance of my soul and the mainstay of my vital-breath.
I have sought the protection of the Omnipotent Lord. Slave Nanak is ever a sacrifice unto Him.
Whosoever enjoys the relish of the association of the love of the Lord's lotus feet he can be cut not with weapons.
He, whose mind is pierced in the way of the Lord's vision, can be bound not with the rope.
Fire can burn not him, who is attached to the dust of the feet of the Lord's slave.
The water can drown not the person, whose feet tread on the God's path.
Nanak, with the arrow of the Lord's Name, the ailments, blemishes, sins and worldly love are pierced through.
Men are engaged in making efforts in many ways. They greatly reflect upon the various aspects of the six Shashtras.
Besmearing their body with ashes, some wander at various pilgrim stations, some make their body thin lean and some blind their hair into many matted locks.
Without the Lord's meditation everyone suffers pain like the spider, which with love increases her web of yarn.
Some perform worship, inscribe religious marks on their body, cook their own food and make ostentations in various ways.
Sawayas about the 1st Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Contemplate on Lord with focused mind, who is the Bestower of blessings,
and He is the Support of the saints and is ever manifest.
Grasping His feet I enshrine them in my mind.
Then sing I the praises of the most exalted Guru Nanak.
I sing the praise of the most sublime Guru, the ocean of bliss, the destroyer of sin and the fountain of the Lord's Name.
Yea, of Him, sing the profound, the sober and the supremely wise, The Yogis and the wandering saints also reflect upon him.
Indra and the like and the saints like Prahlad, who realise the spiritual bliss, sing the praise of Guru Nanak.
Kal, the poet, sings the sublime praise of Guru Nanak who enjoy both the temporal and spiritual kingdoms.
King Janak and the great Yogis of the God's way, sing the praise of the Omnipotent Guru Nanak, who is brimful with the Lord's elixir.
Sanak and the like, saints, adepts etc, and the silent sages sing and chant the praises of Guru Nanak, whom mammon, the deceiver, can deceive not.
Dhoma, the saint, immovable is whose realm, sings the praise of Guru Nanak, who realises the love and relish of the Lord's meditation.
Kal, the poet, sings the sublime praise of Guru Nanak, who enjoys of the temporal and spiritual empires.
Of him sing Kapil and the sublime Yogis of His who is the sublime incarnation of the Infinite Lord.
Sings his Divine praise Parasram, the son of Jamdagan, who was divested of his hand's axe and powers by Raghuvira.
Udho, Akrur and Bidur chant the glories of Guru Nanak, who had realised God, the Soul of all.
Kal, the poet, sings the sublime praise of Guru Nanak, who enjoys both the temporal and spiritual sovereignties.
The four castes and the six Shashtras sing His praises, and Brahma and the like dwell upon his virtues.
The serpent king with his thousand tongues sings his praise with relish and ever remains lovingly and affectionately attached to him.
The desireless Shiva sings the praise of Guru Nanak, who had realised, the worth of the Lord's incessant meditation.
Kal, the poet, sings the sublime praise of Guru Nanak, who enjoy both the temporal and spiritual sovereignties.
He enjoys the sovereignties of this world and the next one and the Uninimical Lord was enshrined in his mind.
Incessantly reciting the Name, the whole world is delivered and emancipated.
The sages like Sanak and the kings like Janak, etc. Sing the praises of Guru Nanak for ages upon ages.
Blest, blest, blest and fruitful is the sublime advent of the Guru, in this world.
Says Kal, the poetical person, his victory resounds even in the under-world.
O Guru Nanak, thou are blessed with the Nectar of the Lord's Name and thou enjoy both the temporal and spiritual realms.
In Goldage thou enjoyed as the dwarf incarnate and were pleased to deceive Bal, the King.
In the Silverage, thou enjoyed being called Ram Chandra of the Raghwa dynasty.
In the Brass age, becoming Krishna, thou killed Mur the demon and delivered Kans.
Thou blessed Ugar Sain with empire and he pious persons with the fearless status.
In the Iron thou are called the accepted Guru's Nanak, Angad and Amar Dass.
Imperishable and Immovable is the rule of the reverend Guru, for such is the command of the Primal Lord.
His praises are sung by saints Ravi Dass, Jaidev and Trilochan.
Deeming thee even-eyed, the devotees like Name and Kabir ever sing thine praises. O Guru Nanak.
Saying that thou enjoy spiritual bliss with equipoise, Beni, the saint, recites thy praise, O Guru Nanak.
Blessed with the Lord's contemplation and comprehension, thou are blended with Him and know not any other without Him, O Guru Nanak.
Sukhdev and Prikhat recite thine virtues and Gautam, the sage, sings thy praise.
Says Kal, the poet, the ever fresh sublime praise of Guru Nanak, is diffused through the world.
In the nether world his praises are sung by the saints, like Sheshnag and other serpents.
Shiva, Yogis, celibates and the wandering saints ever recite his glories.
His praise is sung by Vyas, the silent sage who dwells upon the Vedas and their grammar.
His praise is recited by Brahma too, who by the Lord's command created the whole world.
The Lord is fully contained in the universe and its continents. Both in the manifest and unmanifest form, Nanak realises the Lord to be the very same.
Kall recites the sublime praise of Guru Nanak, who enjoys the Lord's union.
The nine great yogis sing the glory of blessed Guru Nanak, who is merged in the True Lord.
His praise is sung by the emperor Mandhata too, who called himself the ruler of the whole world.
Bal, the King, who abides in the seventh underworld, sings his praises.
Bharthari, who ever abides with Gorakh, his Guru recites Guru Nanak's praise.
Sage Durbasa, King Puro and saint Angra chant the praises of Guru Nanak.
Says Kal, the poet, the sublime praise of Guru Nanak is all-too-spontaneously contained in all hearts.
Saways in praise of the 2nd Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Blessed is He, the Creator Lord Master, who is Omnipotent to do all deeds.
Blessed is Nanak, the True Guru, who has placed his hand on thy brow, O Guru Angad.
When Guru Nanak placed his hand on thy forehead, then the Divine Nectar began to rain in torrents (van-loads), and the gods, men, heavenly heralds and sages were manifestly perfumed.
Challenging, thou destroyed the agonising death, restrained thy wandering mind and controlling the five demons kept them in thy one home.
Through Guru Nanak, thou have conquered the world, thou play the game of equality and keep fixed the flow of thy steady love in the formless Lord.
O Kalsahar, throughout the seven continents, recite thou the praise of Lehna, who meeting with his Lord, became the Guru of the world.
Such is Guru Angad, the ambrosial stream of whose glance washes off and removes the smut of sins and the sight of whose door, dispels the darkness of ignorance.
They, who contemplate the sublime Name, which is a hard and difficult task, those persons cross the world ocean and are rid of their load of sins.
O Guru Angad, true, divine and sublime is thy association. Thou remain awake in the Guru's meditation, are the quintessence of humility and are ever imbued with the Lord's supreme love.
O Kalsahar, throughout the seven continents, recite thou the praise of Lehna, who meeting with his Lord, became the Guru of the world.
Thou resolutely remember the Name of the Infinite Lord, immaculate is whose extent and who is the support of the seekers, adepts, good people and all the beings.
Thou are the incarnation of Janak, the King, sublime is the contemplation of thy world in this universe. Thou live in this world like lotus in the water.
Like the elysian tree thou eradicate ailments and efface the sufferings of the world. The attention of my three-phased mind is fixed in thy love alone.
O Kalsahar, throughout the seven continents, recite thou the praise of Lehna, who, meeting with his Lord, became the Guru of the world.
Thou were blessed with glory of Nanak, the Prophet and thou served the Guru, approved by the Lord who disciplined his mind's snake, and abided in the state of sublime bliss.
Thy vision, O Guru Angad, is like the vision of the Lord God, thy soul is all-knowing and thou know the unfathomable state of the approved Guru.
Such is the Guru, whose eyes see the Master's immovable mansion, whose immaculate intellect is attached to the sublime site and who wearing the armour of humility has destroyed mammon.
O Kalsahar, throughout the seven continents, recite thou the praise of Lehna, who meeting with his Lord, became the Guru of the World.
Casting thy glance, thou dispel darkness, burn sins and destroy wickedness.
Thou are the Lord's hero, who are powerful to destroy lust and wrath.
Thou have overcome avarice and worldly love and thou cherish the seekers of thy refuge.
Thou amass spiritual love and thy spiritual-word is the machine to cast Nectar.
Thou are the anointed True Guru, yea, the True Guru of the Darkage. Whosoever attaches to thee, O True, Guru, he is saved.
Lehna the tiger like son of Pheru, is the Guru of the world and enjoys temporal and spiritual powers.
Thy intellect ever abides in the Lord's love and thou yoke (graze) thine organs according to thy will.
Immaculate are thine thoughts and thou bend low in humility like the fruit-laden tree and thou endure the sufferings of being fruitful.
Thou realise this reality, that unseen and wondrous is the Omnipresent Lord.
With the ambrosial and beauteous rays of the Guru's word, thou have all-too-spontaneously irrigated the mortals.
Thou have obtained the status of the accepted Guru and has grasped truth and contentment.
Proclaims Kalsahar, whosoever attains the vision of Lehna, he meets with his God.
In my mind is the belief that Nanak, the prophet, has blessed thee with the access to the profound Lord.
The fatal poison of sins has hastened away from the body and from within thee, thou in-drink the name Nectar.
The unseen Lord, who has placed His power throughout all the ages, His Light has become manifest within his mind.
Thou, O True Guru, are merged in the trance of equipoise of Him, who is equally contained amongst all.
Thou are open-hearted and the destroyer of poverty, seeing whom the sins are terrified.
Says Kalsahar, with my tongue, I al-too-spontaneously ever lovingly recite the praise of Lehna.
The Name is thy medicine, the Name thy mainstay, the Name thy peace of trance and the stamp of the Lord's Name ever embellishes thee.
Thou are imbued with love of the Lord's Name and the beauteous Name perfumes the God's and men.
Whosoever finds the philosopher's stone of the Name, he becomes the embodiment of truth and the sun of his glory shines in the world.
Seeing the Guru's vision, one attains unto the merit of the ablution at the sixty-eight places of pilgrimage.
O Guru, the True Name is thy pilgrim-station, the True Name is thy ablution and diet, the True Name thou love and, ever reciting the True Name, thou are embellished.
By the Guru's instruction, thou have obtained the True Name and the True Name makes fragrant the saints' society.
The poetical person, Kalsahar narrates the praise of him, the True Name is whose self-discipline and the True Name, the fasting.
Seeing the Guru's sight, the human life is verily approved.
Thou banish all the sins, wickedness and filth of him, on whom thou caste thy sublime and ambrosial glance.
Lust, wrath, avarice and worldly love; all these mighty passions, thou have overpowered.
Peace ever abides within thy mind and thou banish the pain of the world.
The Guru is the river of the nine treasures and washes off the soot of the sins of our lives.
Says Tall, therefore, day and night, spontaneously serve thou, thy Guru.
On beholding the vision of the Guru, the pain of birth and death departs.
Sawayas in praise of the 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He attained to.
Meditate thou on the True Lord, whose One Name is Undeceivable in this world.
Contemplate thou the most sublime Name of Him alone, who has ferried His devotees across the dreadful world ocean.
Guru Nanak, the cherisher of that Name, established Lehna as the Guru, who was blessed with all the supernatural powers.
Says Kal, the poetical person, that the glory of the supremely wise saint Amar Dass in spread throughout the world.
Thy praise is manifest in the world, like the rays of the sun and the fragrance of the boughs of the tree of mimusopselengi.
In the north, south, east and west, men shout forth the slogans of thy victory.
God's Name, which the supreme Guru, by his tongue, had distributed amongst men to turn the tide of their mind (Ganges) towards the West;
the same Undeceivable Name, that ferries the saints across the world-ocean, came into the mind of Guru Amar Dass.
The sublime gods, heavenly singers, the strivers, adepts and Shiva in his trance, all contemplate on the same Name.
The stars, Dhru in his realm, the sages like Narad, Prahlad and good people, meditate on the same Name.
The moon and the sun long for the Name, which has emancipated the ranges after ranges of mountains.
Yea, the very same Undeceivable Name, that ferries the saints across the world ocean, came into the mind of Guru Amar Dass.
Contemplating the same immaculate Name, the nine great Yogis, Shiva and Sanak etc. have been wholly emancipated.
The eighty-four men of miracles and Budhas are imbued with the Name, by which Ambrik was ferried across the dreadful world ocean.
The Name effaced the sins of Oodho, Akrur and, in the Darkage, of Tirlochan, Nam Dev and Kabir.
The very same Undeceivable Name, which ferries the saints across the world ocean, came into the mind of Guru Amar Dass.
To that very Name are attached thirty-three millions of angles who remember it ever and it is also enshrined within the mind of the celibates and penitents.
Meditating on that very Name, the Ganga's son, Bhisham Pitama, enjoyed in his mind the ambrosia of the Lord's feet.
Contemplating the self-same Name and accepting as true the instruction of the profound Great Guru, the saints have been emancipated.
The very same Undeceivable Name, which ferries the saints across the world ocean, came into the mind of Guru Amar Dass.
The Name's glory's is spread in the world like the sun's rays and the fragrance of the boughs of the elysian tree.
And its praise is recited in the countries of the north, south, east and the west.
That life alone is fruitful, in whose heart abides the Lord's Name.
For the Lord's Name, crave the angelic persons, heavenly heralds, celestial singers and the six Shashtras.
Illustrious is Amar Dass, the son of Tej Bhan of Bhalla dynasty. Him contemplates Kall with joined hands.
O Guru Amar Dass, thou are blessed with the same Name, which removes the fear of the devotees about world-ocean.
The thirty-one millions of gods strivers, adepts and men remember the name and the Name upholds the worlds and universes.
He, who contemplates the Lord's Name; he bears weal and woe alike.
Amongst all the things, the Name is the most sublime. The saints remain attuned to it.
With that very wealth of the Name, the Creator-Lord has blessed Guru Amar Dass is His pleasure.
The Guru is the hero of truth, powerful in humility, good-tempered and remains in the great congregation of profound understanding, absorbed in the Uninimical Lord.
Such is the Guru, whose white standard of fortitude is seen on the bridge to the Lord's realm since the very beginning.
The saints lovingly meet with the Guru, who is one with the Creator-Lord.
Serving the True Guru, the saints obtain peace and Guru Amar Dass enables them to attain peace.
The Name is the Guru's ablution, the Name his partaking of the dainties and the Name his relish of victuals and with his mouth, he ever yearningly recites the sweet world of the Guru.
Thou have served the blessed True Guru, by whose grace, thou have realised the state of the Unintelligible Lord.
Thou have acquired an abode in the Name and thy entire lineage is well saved.
Says Kal, fruitful is the advent of him, who meets with the illumined Guru Amar Dass.
On thy right hand is the sing of the lotus, and on the front, the supernatural powers glance at thine face.
On thy left abide the worldly powers, which are fascinating the three worlds.
The Ineffable Lord bides in the Guru's mind and he alone realises His Nectar.
With his mouth, Guru Amar Dass recites the words of devotion and is imbued with this Divine Love.
On his forehead is the true sign of the Lord's grace and joining his hands 'Kal' meditates on him.
Whosoever meets with the supreme and great True Guru, all his desires are fulfilled.
Supremely fruitful are the feet, if the feet walk on the way of Guru Amar Dass.
Supremely fruitful are those hands, that touch the feet of Guru Amar Dass.
Supremely fruitful is the tongue, if the tongue recites the praise of Guru Amar Dass.
Supremely fruitful are the eyes, if the eyes behold the vision of Guru Amar Dass.
Supremely fruitful are the ears, if the ears hear the praise of Guru Amar Dass.
Fruitful is the mind, in which mind Guru Amar Dass, the father of the world, himself abides.
Fruitful is that head, says 'Jalap' which head ever bows before Guru Amar Dass.
They grieve not, are not afflicted with hunger and cannot be said to be poor.
They grieve not and their limit can be found not.
They serve not another and they give gifts to hundreds and thousands.
They are seated on the rich carpets and they disestablish and well-establish others in their will.
They obtain peace in this world and wearing the apparel of fearlessness, they abide amidst their adversaries.
Wholly successful are they, says Jalap, on whom is the pleasure of Guru Amar Dass.
Thou read of one God, enshrine Him alone in thy mind and consider Him as One.
Through thine eyes and words of mouth, thou realise but one Lord, and know not of another's refuge.
Thou see the One Lord in dream and the same One even while awake and are merged in the One alone.
At the age of seventy-one (thirty+one+five+thirty-five) thou did begin to march towards the Indestructible Lord.
The One Lord, who from one assumes lacs and lacs of forms, can be see n not; Him, thou O Guru, has described as One.
Says Jalap, thou seek One Lord and the One Lord thou worship.
The understanding, which Jaidev grasped and the understanding which permeated Namdev.
The understanding that was in the mind of Tirlochan and which was realised by saint Kabir.
The understanding through which Rukmaged the King, did the deed of ever contemplating his Lord, O brother.
The understanding, by which seeking the Lord's refuge, king Amrik and saint Prahlad were blessed with salvation.
Says Jalap, by that very understanding, thou, O Guru, has shed thy avarice, wrath and desire and has known the way of life.
Guru Amar Dass is the Lord's own saint, seeing whose vision, one is blessed with emancipated.
Meeting with Amar Dass, the Guru, the earth is rid of its sins.
The perfect persons and strivers crave to meet with Guru Amar Dass.
Meeting with Amar Dass, the Guru, the mortal is blessed with meditation and his journey comes to an end.
Meeting with Guru Amar Dass, the fear-free Lord is attained and one's transmigration ceases.
When man is domesticated with the Guru's sublime word, then alone ceases that love of another, which is different from that of the One Lord.
Says Jalap, so many invaluable objects are attained by seeing the sight of Guru Amar Dass.
The true Name of the Creator-Lord' that Guru Nanak has grasped and gathered.
From him became manifest Lehna in the form of Guru Angad, who remains attuned to his feet.
Guru Amar Dass, the abode of hope, became manifest in that dynasty, How can I narrate his praise?
Fathomless and infinite are the virtues that he possesses. Of those virtues, I know not the limit.
The Creator-Lord has made him a boat to ferry across his whole following and lineage.
Says Kirat, the bard, save thou me and protect me, O Guru Amar Dass, for, I have sought the refuge of Thine feet.
Assuming power, the Primal Being, of Himself, has entered into the world in the form of the True Guru.
Assuming the form of Guru Amar Dass, the Formless Lord has shed light in the world realm.
The Lord is fully pervading every-where. It is the Guru, who has lighted the lamp of His Name.
Whosoever grasps the quintessence of the Guru's instruction, him the Guru unites with the Lord's feet.
Lehna-Angad, along with Amar Dass was born in the immaculate House of Guru Nanak.
Guru Amar Dass is the ship to ferry across the mortals. In birth after births, I long for the protection of thine feet.
Seeing the Guru's vision, the disciple of the Guru is blessed with the Lord's meditation, service, truth and contentment.
Whosoever seeks the Guru's refuge, he is emancipated and he is rid of the account of the city of death.
His mind is filled with the Lord's meditation and affection and he recites the Name of the Creator Lord.
The Guru is the river of pearls and, in a moment, ferries across the drowning ones.
He was incarnated in the immaculate lineage of Guru Nanak and recites the praise of the Creator-Lord.
They, who serve Amar Dass, the Guru, are rid of pain and poverty.
O my Guru, within my mind, I think of making a supplication before thee, however, I can dare say it not.
I leave all my care to thee and look to the saints congregation for help.
In thy will, I am blessed with the stamp of thy mercy and then serve I my Lord.
When, O Guru, thou see me with the propitious glance, then the fruit of the Creator's Name is in my mouth.
Whatever is the command of the Unfathomable and Unseen Lord, who is the cause of all causes, that alone I recite.
O Guru Amar Dass, thou are the doer of all deeds; as thou keep me, so do I live.
Swayas by Bhikhe, the bard.
Through the Guru's gnosis and contemplation, man's quintessence blends with the Lord's quintessence.
Through truth one realises the True Lord and then is the attuned to Him single-mindedly.
He controls his lust and wrath and then his wind-like mind files and wanders not again.
He abides in the realm of the Formless Lord and realising His will attains unto His meditation.
In this Dark age, the Guru is the embodiment of the Creator Lord. He alone understands this, who did some good deeds in the past.
Says Bhikha, he, the Guru, has met me and the Lord, through His pleasure, has blest me with His vision.
I have been searching for the saints and have seen good many pious persons.
These solitarians, penitents and Brahmans are all sweet-tongued.
However, no one could satisfy me, although I wandered through for a year.
I have heard people say and preach, but seeing their way of life, I am not at all pleased.
Why should I recite the praise of those, who, forsaking the Lord's Name, are attached to another.
Says Bikha, God has made me meet the Guru. O Guru, now I live as thou want me to.
Wearing the armature of seedless trance the Guru has mounted the saddled horse of Divine knowledge.
Holding the bow of faith in his hand, he has charged the arrows of meditation and humility.
Becoming fear-free of the fear with the Eternal God in the mind, the Guru has plunged the spear of the name in his heart.
And has thus destroyed the five demons of lust, wrath, avarice, worldly love and self-conceit.
Guru Amar Dass, the son of Tej Bhan, is the supreme person in the dynasty of Bhallas. Through the blessings of Guru Nanak, he is now the king of kings.
Sall says verily, thisewsie, thou, O Guru Amar Dass, has overpowered the enemy-hosts, waging a war.
No one can count the rain drops falling from the clouds, the vegetation of the earth or the flowers of the spring.
Who can know the limit of the rays of the sun or the moon and waves of the belly of ocean or of the Ganges?
Says Bhall, the poetical persons, with the Shiva's concentration, though man may be able to count them, however, he can know not the gnosis of the True Guru.
Sublime are thine virtues, O Guru Amar Dass. Thy praise becomes only thee.
Saways in the praise of the 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Single-mindedly, contemplate thou thy immaculate Lord.
By the Guru's grace, ever sing thou the praise of thy God.
Singing the Lord's praise, the mind blossoms forth,
and the True Guru, fulfills the desires of His slave.
Serving the True Guru, the mortal attain the supreme status,
and meditates on the Imperishable and Formless Lord.
Meeting with Him, poverty clings not to one.
Kalshar recites the praise of Him.
I recite the pure praise of the sublime person, who recites the Lord's Nectar-Name.
Serving Amar Dass, the True Guru, that Guru Ram Dass was blessed with the Lord's elixir and he enshrined the immaculate Name in his mind.
Guru Ram Dass is the enjoyer of the God's Name, the purchaser of the Lord's virtues, the seeker of the Master's quintessence and the fountain of even-handed justice.
Says Kalsahar, the bard, Guru Ram Dass, the son of Thankar Har Dass, fills the empty tanks.
From Guru Ram Dass proceeds the stream of Nectar and immortal status, and he is like a tank of ambrosia that is always filled up to brim.
Only those saints in-drink this nectar and bathe their mind in it, who have served their Lord in the past.
The Lord drives away their fear, blesses them with the fearless status and ferries them across through His name alone.
Says Kalsahar, the bard, Guru Ram Dass, the son of the Thakar Har Dass, fills the empty tanks.
Profound is the True Guru's understanding, his association makes man blotless and his soul is imbued deep red with the love of his Lord.
Illumined with Divine knowledge, his mind lotus remains awake and in his very home he has attained the fear-free immaculate Lord.
The merciful True Guru has implanted the Lord's Name within me and by his grace, I have disciplined the five demons.
Says Kalsahar, the bard, Guru Ram Dass, the son of Thakar Har Dass, fills the empty tanks.
With detached mind, the Guru is attuned to the fearless and Inconceivable Lord and has met with God, the philosopher's stone, in his very home.
By The True Guru's grace, he has obtained the supreme status and his treasures are brimful with meditation and love.
He is rid of future births, his fear of death is removed and his mind is attached to God, the ocean of contentment.
Says Kalsahar, the bard, Guru Ram Dass, the son of 'Thakar Har Dass, fills the empty tanks.
The empty ones thou fill, O Guru. Thou have obtained the infinite Lord whom thou have enshrined in thy mind.
Within thy mind thou reflects on the 'Real thing, who is the Destroyer of distress and the awakener of the soul.
Thou ever yearn for the Lord's love and thyself realise the relish of this love.
By the True Guru's grace, thou enjoy celestial beatitude with ease.
Through the grace of Nanak and the sublime instruction of Angad Guru Amar Dass brought into play the Lord's command.
Says Kall, the bard, thou, O Guru Ram Dass, has attained the eternal and imperishable dignity.
Thou abide in the tank of contentment and thy tongue reveals the delicious Name-Nectar.
Meeting with thee, tranquility wells up and sin flees away from the mortal's mind.
Blessed by Guru Amar Dass, thou have attained the Ocean of peace and thou grow not weary in thy God's way.
The coat-of-mail of thy self-restraint, truth, contentment and humility breaks not.
The Creator-Lord has created the approved True Guru and the world plays the bugle of His praise.
Says Kall, thou, O Guru Ram Dass, has obtained the eternal and Imperishable status.
O approved True Guru, thou have conquered the world and thou contemplate the One Lord in thy mind.
Blest, blest is Amar Dass, the True Guru, who has enshrined the Name within him.
The Lord's Name is the treasure of nine sorts of riches, Prosperity and miraculous powers are his hand-maidens.
He is blessed with the ocean of Divine knowledge and has met with the Imperishable Lord.
The Guru has implanted in him the name, attached to which the saints have been ever ferried across since primeval times.
O Guru Ram Dass, thou have attained the wealth of the Lord's love; says Kall, the poet.
The low of loving-adoration and the prenatal affection ceases not.
The True Guru in-drinks the Nectar of the immortalising stream of the Infinite Lord.
Wisdom is his mother, contentment his father and he is merged in the ocean of equipoise.
The Guru is the embodiment of the unborn and self-illumined Lord and by his word ferries the world across.
Within his mind, the Guru has enshrined the Name of the Unseen and Unapprehensible Transcendent Lord.
Says Kall, O Guru Ram Dass, thou have attained unto God, the Saviour of the world.
God's Name is the Deliverer of the universe, the Giver of nine treasures and ferries the saints across the world ocean.
The ambrosial drop of the Lord's Name is an antidote to the poison of sins.
The tree of equipoise blossoms and bears the ambrosial fruit of Divine knowledge.
Blessed and very fortunate are those persons, who receive it by the Guru's grace.
They are emancipated through the word of the True Guru and their mind receives wisdom from the Guru's.
Says Kall, O Guru Ram Dass, thou have struck the drum of the Lord's Name.
Thou, O Guru, have the couch of faith, the bedding of equipoise and the canopy of contentment and the armour of humility ever embellishes thee.
Through the Guru's word, thou practise the Name and leaning on it alone, thou perfume thine comrades.
Thou abide with Amar Dass, the birth-free, and sublime True Guru, free from any blemish.
Says Kall, the bard, thou, O Guru Ram Dass, abide in the ocean of Divine knowledge.
They, on whom is the pleasure of the Guru; the Lord's Name abides in their mind.
The sins run away from them, with whom the Guru is mightily pleased.
They, on whom is the pleasure of the Guru, they do away with self-pride and self-conceit.
They, with whom the Guru is greatly pleased, attached to the Name, they are ferried across the world ocean.
Whosoever is blessed with the gnosis of the approved Guru, fruitful is his advent in this world.
Poet Kall hastens to the protection of the sire Guru. Attached to the Guru one is all blessed with the worldly prosperity, spiritual emancipation and every-thing.
The True Guru has pitched the tent underneath which, heave gathered all the men.
Recondite intuition is his banner and the Lord's Name his support, with which the saints are satiated.
Through loving-adoration, Guru Nanak, Angad and Amar Dass, have been blended with the Lord.
Thou alone, O Guru Ram Dass, know the relish of this union with God, the King.
He alone is the divine, who hitches his mind chariot to the most sublime state and realises his Lord.
He gathers truth and contentment and fills the empty tank of his mind.
Ineffable is the discourse of the immortal city that is attained by those who are blessed by the Lord.
O Guru Ram Dass, the kingship like that of Janak, becomes thee alone.
Whosoever steadfastly recites the True Guru-given Name with single mindedness and love, say, how can suffering and sin cling to that man?
On whomsoever God, the ship to ferry across, casts His merciful glance even for a trice, He contemplates the Name in his mind and is rid of lust and wrath.
The Guru is the blesser of all the beings, recites the gnosis of the Unfathomable Lord, e ver contemplates Him and sleeps not even for a while.
Such is the Guru, seeing whom poverty vanishes and one is blessed with the Name-like treasure. The Divine knowledge imparted by the supreme Guru washed off the filth of the evil-intellect.
How can suffering and sin cling to that person who steadfastly recites the Name with love and focused mint that is given by the True Guru?
Faith and good deeds are obtained from the perfect True Guru.
Such is the Lord, for whose service crave the adepts, saints, silent sages and the angelic persons and through whose sublime Name, man is attuned to the One God.
Again, who can know thy limit, O Guru? Thou are the embodiment of the Fear-free and Formless Lord. Thou alone describe the Ineffable God and thou alone are blessed with His comprehension.
O worldly doubt-strayed man lost in doubt, reflect thou on thy Lord by the Guru's instruction. Thiswise thou shall be delivered of birth and death and the death's courier shall punish thee not.
O silly mortal, reflect, reflect thou in thy mind and, day and night, recite thou, thy Lord's Name. Faith and good deed are obtained from the perfect True Guru.
O my True Guru, I am a sacrifice, yea, O sacrifice unto True Name.
What praise can I attribute unto thee and what service of thine can I perform with the one tongue of my mouth, I joyful recite thy Name clasping both of my hands.
Again, in thy thought, word and deed, thou realise the True Name and adore not any other. O Guru, thou have enshrined within my mind the sublime Name of the Infinite Lord.
Says Nall, the poet, just as by touching philosopher's stone, glass becomes gold and just as sandal imparts fragrance to other trees, similar is the Guru, whose contemplation transmutes the mortal.
I am a sacrifice yea, a sacrifice unto the True Name of the True Guru, seeing whose door, one is rid of lust and wrath.
Guru Amar Dass has blessed Guru Ram Dass with the temporal and spiritual throne.
As first Nanak Dev became manifest like the moon. To emancipate the human beings, he illumined the world, which was then filled with bliss.
With the treasure of the Divine discourse and gnosis of the Ineffable Lord, Nanak blessed Guru Angad, who overcame his five demos and was rid of the fear of the Death's courier.
The great and venerable True Guru, Amar Dass saved the honour of the Darkage and such is he, seeing whose lotus feet, men's sins are destroyed.
When his mind was satisfied in every way, then was he pleased and he bestowed on Guru Ram Dass, the secular and spiritual throne.
it is the Name of measure.
He who has installed the earth and the sky and air and the water of the oceans and has make the fire and corn etc.
Who has created the moon, the stars the sun, night, the day and the mountains and who has blessed the trees with flowers and fruits.
Who has created the gods, men and the seven oceans and who has established the three worlds.
Guru Amar Dass is blessed with the light of that unique Name, the Lord's True Name.
Hearing the Guru's word with the ears, glass is transformed into gold.
Reciting the True Guru's Name with the mouth, poison is transmuted into Nectar.
When the True Guru casts his merciful glance, iron is turned into a jewel.
When man recites and reflects upon the Guru gnosis, the stone is turned into an emerald.
Eradicates are the pangs and poverty of those, whom the True Guru has make sandal from wood.
Whosoever touches the True Guru's feet, becomes an angelic person from beast and ghost.
How can a person be proud of worldly wealth, on whose side is the Guru?
He, on whose side is the Guru, what harm can lacs of arms do unto aim?
He, on whose side is the Guru, for gnosis and spiritual vision, he depends not on my other.
He, on whose side is the Guru, reflects on the Guru's word and instruction and abides in the True Abode.
Supplicates the slave minstrel, whosoever recites the Name of the Great Guru by day and night,
and enshrines the Guru's Name in his mind, he is rid of both birth and death.
Without the Guru, there is pitch darkness and without the Guru, understanding is obtained not.
Without the Guru, man can obtain not divine comprehension and success, and, without the Guru, he is blessed not with emancipation.
Come thou into the Guru's fold, yea, my soul, come thou into the Guru's fold for the true reflection of the Lord.
Adopt thou the Guru, who is embellished with the Name, so that all thy sins may be washed off.
Says Kall, the bard, by thine eyes and words contemplate thou the Guru, the Great Guru, yea, the True Guru.
They who have neither seen nor adopted the Guru, vain are they in this world.
O my soul, thou recite the Name of the Guru, the Guru, the Guru.
In this darkage, the Omnipotent Guru is a ship to ferry across, hearing whose word, one lands in profound trance.
He is such a hero, who destroys pain in an instant and can bestow peace. Whosoever contemplates him, near him he abides.
The Guru is the perfect person, who remembers Lord in the mind. Seeing the face of such a Guru, the sins are washed away.
O my mind, if thou desire Godly wisdom, wealth and prosperity; then contemplate on that Guru who is the Guru of the Gurus.
Seeing the Guru's face, I have obtained perfect peace.
I had the thirst to in-drink the Nectar. For fulfilling that aspiration, the Lord has chalked out a way.
My mind, which wandered in ten directions stung with the desire of relish has become perfect and now abides in the Lord's abode.
Says Jallan, Goindwal built on the bank of river Beas is like the city of the Lord.
Seeing the vision of the Guru, my grief of many years has been dispelled far away and I have obtained great peace.
The all mighty Guru has placed his hand upon my head.
The Guru has shown mercy and has blessed me with the Lord's Name. Seeing the Lord's feet, my sins are washed off.
Night and day, the Guru incessantly contemplates the Lord and hearing his Name 'Yama', the son of the sun, is scared.
Says the Guru's slave that the Guru (Ram Dass) leaned on the world-teacher, Guru Amar Dass, who uniting him with the philosopher's stone, has made him the philosopher's stone.
When the All-powerful Guru placed his hand on the head of Guru Ram Dass, then he realised the Lord as True.
O my Guru, now save thou the honour of Dass, thy bard.
As God saved the honour of saint Prahlad by tearing Harnakhash with His hand nails.
And, as the Sire God Lord preserved the honour of Dropadi, by blessing her with good many more robes, when she was divested of her clothes.
As, Sodama was saved from calamity and the courtesan recited the Lord's Name and He fulfilled her affairs,
O Sire True Guru, becoming mighty pleased, similarly save thou the honour of Dass, the Bard, in this Dark-age.
The Name of measure.
O mortals, recite ye the Name of your Guru, the great Guru, yea, the sublime Guru.
Know thou this as true, that the Guru recites the Lord God's Name, blesses others with the Name's nine treasures and his tongue day and night tastes the Name.
Again, O divines, be blessed with the Lord's love and affection and, abandoning other ways, remember and contemplate your God, through the supreme Guru.
Enshrine the Lord's Name in your mind, overwhelm your heart of five elements and save your life and lineage. This wise you shall be honoured in the Lord's Court.
If thou desire all the comforts of this and that world, O mortal, then recite ye, the Name of your Guru, the great Guru, the sublime Guru.
Deeming Him as True, O man, meditate thou on thy God, the great Teacher, yea, the Teacher of the teachers.
Know thou that God is the infinite treasure of virtues. So contemplate Him in the mind and, day and night. rcite and enshrine the Guru's word in thy heart.
Then take ye bath in the Guru's immaculate and unfathomable water and swim about in the love-ocean of the True Name, O saints and Guru's disciples.
The Guru ever lovingly meditates on the Envy-free, Formless and Fear-free Lord and with relish grasps God's Name and devotion.
O my foolish mind, discard thy doubt and recite the Name by the Guru's grace, Deeming Him as true, meditate thou on thy God, the great Teacher, the Teacher of the teacher.
Recite thou the Name of the great Guru. It is through the Guru that the Lord is obtained.
The Guru is like a deep, unshakable and infinite ocean. Attuned to the God's Name, one is blessed with jewels, rubies and emeralds.
And the Guru makes man fragrant and delightful, his touch transmutes him into gold and dwelling upon the Guru's word, the filth of his evil-intellect is washed off.
Such is the Guru, from whose door ever gushes forth the stream of Nectar and in the immaculate pool of his gnosis bathe the saints and his disciples.
Enshrine thou in thy mind the Name's treasure of the detached Lord and recite the Name of the great Guru, for, through the Guru alone, thou shall, recite thou the Name of the great Guru, for, through the Guru alone, thou shall obtain thy Lord.
O my soul, recite thou the Name of the great Guru, yea, the great Guru.
Such is the Guru, serving whom and hearing whose word with their ears, Shivas, adepts, strivers, angels, demons, attendants of gods and thirty-three millions of gods swim across.
And those saints and loving devotees, who recite the Guru's Name are emancipated. Meeting with the silent sage, Narad, Prahlad too swam across.
Abandoning other relishes and attached to the One Name, Narad and his like Sanak etc. and other holy men of God have been saved and emancipated.
Supplicates Dass, the bard, it is by the Guru's grace, that the Name is attained, so recite thou the Name of the Guru, the great Guru, the sublime Guru, O my soul.
The Sire great Guru showered his benediction on all;
such is the Guru, who in the Goldage blessed Dhru.
The Reverend Guru emancipated Prahlad, the saint,
by placing his lotus hand on his forehead.
The Undiscernible from of the Lord, one can discern not.
The strivers and perfect persons all seek the Lord's refuge.
True are the Guru's word, Enshrine thou them in the mind.
Thiswise, thou make thy human birth and body fruitful.
The Guru is the boat and Guru the boatman. Without the Guru, no one has been able to swim across.
By the Guru's grace, the Lord is obtained. Without the Guru none is emancipated.
Guru Nanak abides near the Creator.
Establishing Lehna as the Guru, he enshrined his light in the world,
Lehna gave currency to the path of righteousness,
which he passed on to Amar Dass, the descendent of the Bhallas.
He then permanently established Sire Ram Dass of the Sodhi's clan.
He blessed Guru Ram Dass with indestructible treasure of the God's Name.
He blessed Guru Ram Dass with the treasure of God's Name, which is inexhaustible the four ages through. By the Guru's service, Guru Ram Dass received this reward.
They, who pay homage to the Guru's feet and seek their refuge, are blest with peace and are said to be supremely blissful Guru-wards.
The Guru's body is manifestly the embodiment of the Transcendent Lord Master, the Primal Being, who cherishes and fills all.
Serve thou the Great True Guru, inscrutable are whose Divine doings. Sire Ram Dass is a ship to ferry across.
He, whose ambrosial words and Gurbani, the saintly persons recite with zeal in their mind.
In this world, fruitful is the vision of that Guru, who is the harbinger of eternal bliss and joy.
Says Ganga, the bard, accredited is the vision of the Guru in this world. Meeting with him one is blest with the Immaculate supreme status.
The sinful persons, who are imbued with the gnosis of the Guru-God, become the Lord's saints and conquer the realm of death.
The Guru is celebrated like the supreme and beauteous Ram Chander in the house of Dasrath of the Raghwa dynasty. Such is the Guru, whose refuge even the sages seek.
Serve thou the Great True Guru, inscrutable are whose Divine doings Sire Ram Das is a ship to ferry across.
To cross the unfathomable world ocean, I have obtained from the Supreme Guru the raft of the God's Name.
Whosoever believes this in his mind, flee away his comings and goings, in this world.
The persons, who so believe in their mind, obtain high status indeed.
They renounce mammon's love, greed and avarice and are rid of the pain of lust and wrath.
Blessed with an inner eye they see their Lord, the Doer of deeds and all their doubts are dispelled.
Serve thou the great True Guru, incomprehensible is whose wondrous state. The Venerable Guru Ram Dass is a ship to cross the world ocean.
The greatness of the Guru is ever manifest in all the hearts. The Guru's attendants sing his praise.
Taking bath in the early morn, some read, hear and sing his praise.
After ablution early in the morning, they worship the Guru with the pure mind and in a reverential way.
Touching the philosopher's stone their body is transmuted into gold and they fix their attention on God, the Embodiment of Light.
God, the Life of the world and the Lord of the universe is fully contained in the water and dry land and the Guru described Him in many ways.
Serve thou the Great True Guru, inscrutable are whose Divine doings. Sire Ram Dass is a ship to ferry across.
They who realise the Divine discourse of the Eternal Lord like Dhru, those men escape from dying ignoble death.
They cross the terrible world ocean in a moment, God has created the world like the bubble of water.
Associating with the saints, their mind's tongue is opened and through the supreme Guru, they through the supreme Guru, they enjoy, the Lord of supreme bliss.
The venerable Great Guru is over and above all, so serve thou the True Guru, with thy though, word and deed.
The Wondrous, Beauteous and blest are thou, O Guru-God.
Thou are lotus-eyed, recite sweet words and are embellished with millions of hosts. Thou are the one, whom the mother, Yashoda, asks to partake the curd and rice.
Seeing thy supremely beauteous from and hearing the tinkling sound of thy lion-chain, when thou were at play, the mother was greatly intoxicated through love.
Death's pen and command are in thy hand, and who can efface thy will? Shiva and Brahma crave to enshrine thy gnosis and meditation in their mind.
Thou are ever just, true, the abode of excellence and the Primeval person. My wondrous, beauteous and lustrious Guru, thou are worthy of praise and reverence.
Thou are blessed with the Lord's Name, supreme mansion and clear understanding and thyself are the Formless infinite Lord. Whom should I call equal to thee?
For the sake of clean-hearted saint Prahlad, thou assumed the Man-lion from and destroyed and tore Harnakhsh with thy nails.
Thou are the Limitless Transcendent Lord, who embellishing thyself with couch, quoit, bludgeon and lotus mark; deceived Ball, the king. Who is that who can know thee (Him)?
O my praiseworthy Lord, God, Master, Thou are ever just, true, the abode of excellence and the Primeval person.
Thou wear yellow robe, has teeth like the jasmine flower, abide with thy love, has rosary upon thy neck and eagerly embellish thy head with the crown of the peacock feathers.
Thou are without a minister, greatly fortitudinous, partisan of truth, Unseeable and unfathomable, by thy pleasure, thou have staged the world play.
O Lord, Thine ineffable discourse can be described not. Thou are pervading the three worlds. O King of kings, thou have naturally assumed the form of the Guru.
O my praiseworthy Lord, God, Master, Thou are ever just, true, abode of excellence and the primeval Person.
The True Guru, True Guru, True Guru is the embodiment of the Sire Lord.
Thou are the enticer of Balraja, the smotherer of the mighty, the fulfiller of the devotee, the prince Krishna and Kalki, the coming incarnation of God, the thunder of whose mounted army and the beat of drum shall be echoed all over.
Thou thyself are the contemplator of the Lord, the destroyer of sin, the dispenser of bliss to all the universes, pervading all the beings, God of gods and the thousand mouthed and hooded serpent King.
Becoming the incarnation of the Big fish, Tortoise and the Boar, thou assumed their avocations. Such are Thou who played the game of "throw ball" at the bank of Jamuna.
Says Gayand, the bard, enshrine thou in thy heart his sublime Name and renounce thine mind's wickedness. The True Guru, the ever True Guru, the ever and ever True Guru is the embodiment of the World-Lord.
The venerable Guru, the highly venerable Guru, True indeed is the most venerable Guru.
Know thou this instruction as true, obey thou the Guru's word, This alone is thy personal treasure, Thiswise thou shall be eternally emancipated and shall be blessed with the supreme status.
Renounce thou lust, wrath, avarice and worldly love, give up deceiving one and all, snap the noose of self-conceit and be thou imbued with the saints' society.
Grasp thou this instruction in this world, abandon the love of thy body, home, wife and mind's revelments and ever serve the lotus feet to thy Guru.
Says Gayand, the bard, enshrine thou in thy heart the sublime Name and renounce thine mind's wickedness. The venerable Guru, the highly venerable Guru, true is the most venerable Guru.
O my blessed Guru, it is all through thine gift, that thine attendants remain fulfilled through all the ages.
O Formless Lord, Thou are eternally safe and sound. No one can say, since how long are Thou.
Thou have created countless Brahmas and Vishnu. To them have clung the mind's worldly love and self-conceit.
Thou have created eighty-four lacs of species and given to them all sustenance since that very time.
O my blessed Guru, it is all through thine gift, that thine attendants remain fulfilled through all the ages.
Great is the play of the wondrous Lord.
He Himself laughs, Himself cares and Himself illumines the moon and the sun.
He Himself is the water, Himself the support of the earth and Himself abides in every heart.
He Himself is the male and Himself the female. Himself is He the chess-figure, Himself the chessboard.
In the society of saints, O pious person, reflect ye all on this; great is the play of the wondrous Lord.
Uniting the elements together, Thou have created this great game and play of the word. O Wondrous Lord, all this is Thy creation.
Thou are fullyfilling the water, dry land, the firmament and the under-world. Such are thou, whose words are sweeter even than Nectar.
The Brahmas and the Shivas worship The. Thou are the death of death. O Immaculate Lord, every one begs of Thee.
By the Guru's grace, the supreme object is attained and the mind is absorbed in the saints' society.
Uniting the elements together, Thou have created this great game and play of the world. O God, all this is Thy creation.
Unfathomable, Infinite and Eternal is the Lord, whose beginning no one knows.
Such is the Lord, whom the Shiva and Brahma contemplate and whom the Vedas ever describe.
Formless the Uninimical is he and without Him there is not another second.
He, the Lord is All-powerful to destroy and to create and is a ship to ferry across.
With his tongue, Mathura, the slave, joyfully recites the praise of Him, who has created the world in many ways.
The praise worthy True Name of the Creator-Lord abides in the mind of Guru Ram Dass.
I have grasped the all-powerful Guru, to stabilize my intellect and to embellish my sublime understanding.
Again, his flag of righteousness ever flutters to ward off all the waves of sins.
Knowing it as such in his mind, Methura, the slave, has recited the truth. Save this, there is naught else that one may reflect upon.
In the Dark age, God's Name is a great ship to ferry across the world ocean.
Meeting with the saints, the congregation of saints and imbued with sublime love, the Guru sings the Lord's praise.
The Guru, the support of the earth, has established this path of truth. He himself remains attuned to the Lord and runs not after another.
Good is the fortune of those, who serving the Guru, obtain their heart desired fruits, recites Mathura, the bard.
They, who fix their attention on the Guru's feet, why should they dread the Righteous judge, the son of the sun?
The Guru is the brimful tank of the immaculate Name-Nectar, in which become manifest the waves of Gurbani before day-break.
He is deep, eternal unfathomable, supremely great, ever brimful and the mine of jewels in every way.
The saint-swans make merry in the Guru's pool and their dread of death and the papers containing accounts of pains are destroyed.
In this Dark age, the holy vision of the Guru, the ocean of all comforts, rids the mortal of sins.
For whose sake, fixing their attention, the sages wander through all the ages. Rare is the one, whose soul is sometimes illumined.
Whose praise the Brahma sings with the Veda's hymns and for whose sake, the sage Shiva remains clung to the Kailash mountain (meditating).
For whose sake wander dispassionately and wear religious garbs the yogis, celibates adepts, strivers and various penitents with matted hair.
That True Guru, through his pleasure, showed mercy to all the beings and blessed. Guru Ram Dass with the glory of the Name.
The Guru, the Name's treasure, contemplates the Lord tuned to Him. He is the embodiment of Light and illumines the three worlds.
Seeing his vision, doubt, flees, forthwith pain is dispelled and peace easily wells up.
Like the craving of all the black-bees for the fragrance of the flowers, the slavers and the disciples of the Guru, ever remain greatly fascinated by the Guru's sight.
The Guru his presence, himself, established the eternal and true throne of Guru Ram Dass.
Blessing it with the Name-Nectar, the Omnipotent Guru has emancipated the world, inebriated with the wine of mammon.
Again, the praise worthy Guru is ever blessed with peace and riches and prosperity and riches and prosperity and miraculous powers leave not His company.
Great is the bounty of the Guru and he is blessed with the supremely great power. The slave Dass, the bard, recites this essence.
When the Guru has placed his hand on some one, then why should that person care for anyone?
He, the Lord is fully-filling the three worlds.
He has no created another in this world, equal to Himself.
His ownself, He Himself has created.
The gods, mortals and demons know not His limit.
His end, the gods, men and ghosts can find not. The servants of demi-gods and the celestial singers wander about searching Him.
The Imperishable, Immovable, Unborn, Self-illumined and Sublime Person is the most infinite of the infinite.
All the beings, in their mind, meditate on Him the Lord, who is the Cause of Causes and ever All-powerful.
Thy victory resounds in the whole world. Thou, O Sire Guru Ram Dass, have attained the supreme godly status.
Nanak, the True Guru single-mindedly contemplated his Lord and surrendered his body, soul and wealth to Him.
Then the Infinite Lord enshrined His own Being in Guru Angad and he, in his mind, enjoyed the Nectar of his unfathomable gnosis.
Reciting and contemplating Lord's praises, Guru Amar Dass has make God subject to his will.
Thy victory resounds in the whole world. Thou, O Sire, Guru Ram Dass, has attained the Godly supreme status.
Narad, Dhru, Prahlad and Sudama are accounted among the God's saints of the past.
Ambrik, Jaidev, Tirlochan, Nam Dev and Kabir are also said to be His saints.
They were born in the Darkage and their glory spread over the whole world.
Thy victory resounds in the whole world. Thou, O Sire Guru Ram Dass, has attained the supreme Godly status.
The men, who meditate on Thee with their whole mind, their lust and wrath are effaced.
They who contemplate Thee with their words, they are rid of their pain and poverty in a moment.
They, to whom thou show mercy, O Guru, seeing thy vision become like the philosopher's stone, Ball, the bard, sings thine praises.
Thy victory resounds in the whole world. Thou, O Sire Guru Ram Dass, have attained the supreme Godly status.
Whosoever contemplates the True Guru, the darkness of his eyes is dispelled in a trice.
Whosoever contemplates his True Guru, day by day, God's Name permeates his mind.
Whosoever remembers the True Guru, the fire of his mind is quenched.
Whosoever remembers the True Guru, he is blest with wealth, miraculous powers and the nine treasures.
Such is Guru Ram Dass, says, Ball, the bard. Joining the saints' society, call him thou the blest, yea, the best indeed.
O men, contemplate ye that True Guru, clinging to which True Guru, the Lord is obtained.
Such is the Guru, who practising the name, attained the supreme status and whilst performing service, abandoned not the company of Guru Amar Dass.
From that service, the light of the jewel of gnosis became manifest by which pain, poverty and darkness were destroyed.
Says Kirat, who cling to the feet of saints by turning away from the world, they dread not lust, wrath and death.
As Guru Nanak was always present with Angad, so abides Guru Amar, Dass with Guru Ram Dass.
Serving the True Guru, whosoever attains the treasure of Name, night and day, he abides at the God's feet.
Therefore, the entire congregation loves and fears thee. O Guru. Thou are the sandal tree and manifest if thy fragrance.
Reciting the Lord's Name, the Divine Light welled up in Dhru, Prahlad, Kabir and Trilochan.
Seeing whom, the soul is greatly whom, the soul is greatly pleased, he, the support of the saints, is Guru Ram Dass.
Nanak realised the immaculate Name and lovingly fixed his attention on the Lord's devotional service.
From him became manifest, like the ocean, Angad, who ever lived in his presence. He rained the Lord's Name on the mortal's mind.
Ineffable is the story of Guru Amar Dass, which cannot, at all, be told, with one tongue.
Sodhi Guru Ram Dass has now obtained glory, in order to ferry across the whole world.
I am brimful with sins and have not even a single virtue. Abandoning Nectar, I eat nothing but poison.
Falling into love of riches and doubt, I am wandering about and have contracted affection with my sons and wife.
I have heard that the Guru's congregation alone is the sublime path, adhering to which, the fear of death is shed.
Kirat the minstrel, makes a supplication, O Guru Ram Dass, keep thou me ever under thy protection.
The Guru has crushed and overpowered his worldly love and seizing lust by the hair has knocked it down.
With his power, he has cut wrath into pieces and avarice, he has disgraced and shaken off.
With joined hands, birth and death both obey the order, the Guru gives.
The world ocean, thou have brought under thy sway and by thy supreme pleasure, thou have ferried across thine disciples.
With canopy on thy head, thou are seated on the True Throne and are embellished with both the spiritual and secular powers.
Sall, the bard, recites the truth, O Guru Ram Dass, eternal is thy rule and unconquerable thy army.
Thou are the True Guru of the four ages and thou thyself are the Supreme Lord.
Since the very beginning, angelic persons, strivers, adepts and disciples have been serving thee.
O Primeval person, Thou are since the commencement of ages and without any beginning. Thy power is giving support to the three worlds.
The Unfathomable Lord is the Saviour of the Vedas and he has conquered old age and death.
Guru Amar Dass has eternally established thee. Thou are the emancipator of mortals and a ship to ferry across.
Says Sall, the poet, O Guru Ram Dass, thou are the destroyer of sins; therefore, I have sought Thine refuge.
Swayas in praise of the 5th Guru.
There is but One God. But the True Guru's grace, is He attained.
Meditate I on Him who is the Eternal and Imperishable Lord.
Contemplating upon whom, the filth of evil understanding is washed off.
The True Guru's lotus feet, enshrine I within my mind.
In equipoise reflect I on the virtues of Guru Arjan.
He made himself manifest in the house of Guru Ram Dass,
and all the desire and hopes were fulfilled.
Through the Guru's instruction, thou, O Guru, have realised the Lord since thy very birth.
Joining his hands Kall, the bard, recites thine sublime praise.
God has brought thee into this world like Janak to practise the Yoga of His meditation.
Through thee, the Guru's word becomes manifest and the Lord abides on thy tongue.
Attaching thyself to Guru Nanak, Angad and Amar Dass, Thou are blessed with the sublime status,
In the house of Guru Ram Dass, Guru Arjan Dev, the saint of the Lord was born.
Very fortunate are thou whose mind abides in the supreme state of bliss. The Lord's Name, thou have enshrined in thy mind.
Thy mind's jewel is contented and the Guru has implanted the Name within thee.
The Inaccessible and incomprehensible Transcendent Lord is beheld through thee, O True Guru.
In the house of Guru Ram Dass, Guru Arjan Dev has been manifested as the Embodiment of the Fearless Lord.
In the Darkage, the Guru has established the benign rule of Raja Janak and the True age has dawned.
Through the Guru's word, the mind is pleased and the unsatiable soul is sated.
Laying the True Foundation, Guru Nanak is blended with the True Guru, his Lord.
In the house of Guru Ram Dass, Guru Arjan Dev is seen as the manifestation of the Limitless Lord.
God, the King, has staged the wondrous play and has infused and amassed contentment and immaculate understanding, in the True Guru.
The poets, like Kall, recite the sublime praise of the Guru, who is the manifestation of the unborn and self-illumined Lord.
Guru Nanak blessed Angad and Guru Angad blest Amar Dass with the Name Treasure.
Guru Ram Dass blessed Arjan Dev, who touching the Philosopher's stone, became acceptable.
Thou, O Guru Arjan, are ever-alive, invaluable, unborn, self-existent,
the destroyer of dread, the dispeller of other's pain, infinite and fearless.
Thou have seized the Unseizable Lord, has burnt off doubt and misgiving and thou bless the mortals with cool comfort.
In thy form, the self-illumined Creator and the Perfect Lord has come into being.
Nanak, the primal Guru, Angad Dev, Amar Dass and the True Guru, have all merged in the Lord.
Blest, blest indeed is Ram Dass, the Great Guru, who, like the philosopher's stone, touched Arjan Dev, and make him like himself.
He, whose victory resounds in the world, high is the fortune in his home and he remains united with his Lord.
Through great good fortune, I have attained to that perfect Guru, who is attuned to the Lord and who bears the load of earth.
The Guru is the destroyer of fear and the remover of the pain of others. Kalsahar, the bard, recites thy praise, O Guru.
In the lineage of Sodhis, Arjan the son of Guru Ram Dass, is born as the saint of God and he is the standard of piety.
He is the support of Divine faith, profound in the Guru's wisdom and the remover of the sorrow of others.
Sublime is his word, generous is he like God and is also the destroyer of ego.
He is the great giver and the possessor of the True Guru's gnosis. His mind's desire to contemplate his Lord wearies not.
The immaculate nine treasures of the Lord's Name and Gurbani are with him and those exhaust not ever.
O Son of Guru Ram Dass, thou are contained amidst all and the canopy of Divine knowledge spreads over you.
Says Kall, the bard, thou, O Guru Arjan Dev, know the relish of both the secular and spiritual sovereignties.
Abiding in His fear, thou enjoy the fearless Lord and see the Unseeable God amongst lacs of beings.
Through the True Guru, thou have known the state of thy unfathomable, incomprehensible and Profound Lord.
Meeting with thy Guru, thou are approved and practise detachedness even in midst of affluence,
Blest, blest and blest indeed is the Guru, who has completely filled the pools that were not fillable.
Reaching up to the approved Guru, thou endure the Unendurable and are merged in the sea of contentment.
Says Kall, O Guru Arjan, thou have easily obtained union with thy own Lord.
O Inapprehensible and infinite hero, the Guru, through thy tongue rains Nectar, thy mouth blesses gifts and thy words eradicate ego.
Thou have smothered the five enticing demons and has easily established thy Lord in thy own home.
Attached with the Lord's Name, the world is ferried across. That Name, the True Guru has enshrined in my mind.
Says Kall, the bard, O Guru Arjan Dev, thou have illumined the pinnacle of the glory of thine slaves.
Soraths.
Guru Arjan Dev is the approved person and like Arjan, the son of Kunti, he leaves not the field.
His spear and standard are the Name and he is embellished with the True Guru's word.
God's Name is the bridge and boat to cross the dreadful water of the world ocean.
Thou have love with the True Guru. Attaching to the Name, thou have saved the world, O Guru.
Through the True Guru's pleasure, I am blessed with the Name, the emancipator of the world.
Now I have no concern with any other. Repairing to thy door, O Guru, I am fulfilled.
God, the Embodiment of Light, has caused Himself to be called Guru Nanak.
From him Angad Dev became the Guru, whom he, forthwith, united with the Primal Lord.
Showering his benediction, Angad Dev established Amar Dass as the True Guru.
Amar Dass blessed Guru Ram Dass with the ambrosial umbrella.
Says Mathura, seeing the vision of Guru Ram Dass, Nectar-sweet became the speech of Arjan Dev.
With thine eyes, see thou the embodiment of the approved person, Arjan Dev, the filth Guru.
The True Name of God, the Embodiment of truth, righteousness and contentment, Guru Arjan has enshrined within his mind.
Since the very beginning, the Primal Lord had manifestly written on his forehead this destiny.
His Divine Light is manifestly glittering and his grandeur is pervading the world realm.
Meeting with, being in communion with, and joining with Guru, the philosopher's stone, he was acclaimed as the Guru.
Says Mathura, I ever fix my attention on his being and remain obedient to him,
In the Dark age, Guru Arjan is the ship and the entire world attached to it is safely ferried across.
I crave from that person alone who is renowned the world over and who, by day and night, loves and lives by Name.
He is supremely detached, imbued with the supreme Lord's love, without desire however, apparently is a family man.
He is dedicated to the love of the Infinite and limitless Lord and without his Master, he has no concern with any other relish.
Guru Arjan Dev, the Lord of Mathura, the bard, is the All-pervading God. For the sake of His meditation, he remains dedicated to the Lord's feet.
All the gods, sages, Indra and great Shiva, who practised Yoga, have found not the Lord's limit and not even Brahma,
who continues reflecting upon the Vedas; so, I leave not the Lord's meditation even for an instant.
The Lord of the slave Mathura, is merciful to the meek and He blesses the societies of saints throughout the whole world.
To emancipate the world, Guru Ram Dass enshrined the Guru's Light into Guru Arjan.
In this world, there is no other saint. Arjan, the Lord has make manifest, as His own incarnate.
Of those, millions of sorrows are dispelled, who through him in-drink the Name-Nectar, says Mathura.
O man, thou miss not this path of the Guru and thou destroy the very idea of distinction between the Guru and God and deem not the Guru as another.
God, the Omnipresent Lord, has manifestly taken His abode in the mind of Guru Arjan.
So long as destiny on my forehead appeared not, till then I wandered and ran about in various directions.
I was drowning in the terrible ocean of this Darkage and my sorrowing would have ended not ever.
O Mathura, think thou as the quintessence, that to emancipate the World, Lord has incarnated Himself.
Whosoever meditates on Guru Arjan Dev, he passes not again through the pain of births and womb.
In the ocean of the Ironage, the Lord's Name has become manifest in the embodiment of the Guru, to ferry across the world.
He, within whose mind the Saint abides, his pain and poverty are wiped off,
The Guru is the Immaculate form of the Infinite Lord. Without him there is not any other.
Whosoever through the thought and word knows the Guru, he becomes like him.
He is fully contained in the earth, the sky and the nine regions as the embodiment of the Lord's Light.
Says Mathura, there is no distinction between the Guru and God. Guru Arjan is manifestly the Lord himself.
Unconquerable and unfailing is water of the Guru's Ganges. His disciples and congregation all bathe therein.
The Puranas ever dwell upon the Guru and Brahma too with his mouth sings his praise through his Vedas.
Over his head waves invincible fly brush and with his mouth he quaffs the Name-Nectar.
The Transcendent Lord Himself has placed the royal canopy over the head of Guru Arjan Dev.
Nanak, Dev, Angad Dev, Guru Amar Dass and Guru Ram Dass repaired to the Lord and got blended with Him.
Says Harbans, the bard, their praise has permeated the whole world. Who says, that the Venerable Gurus are dead?
When the Transcendent Lord, Himself, so willed, Ram Dass, the Guru, went into the Lord's abode.
God gave him his Royal Throne and seated the Sire Guru on the throne.
The angels and gods were pleased and they proclaimed thy victory and praise, O Guru.
The demons, they fled away for, their sins trembled within them.
The persons, who attained to Guru Ram Dass, were rid of their sins.
The Guru came after giving the canopy and the throne of the earth to Guru Arjan Dev.
There is but one God. True is His Name, Creative His personality and Immortal His form. He is without fear, sans enmity, beyond birth and self-illumined. By the Guru's grace He is obtained.
The saloks in addition to the Vars. 1st Guru.
O bride, proud of elevated breasts, thou grasp profound sobriety.
O mother-in-law how should I make an obeisance? Because of my stiff nipples I can bow not.
O maid, the mountain-high mansions, plastered with lime.
Even they I have seen crumbling down. O damsel, pride thou not on thy nipples.
O bride, with (beautiful) eyes similar a deer, thou hear the word of deep and infinite wisdom.
First examine the goods, then alone thou must strike a bargain.
Proclaim thou, that thou shall associate not with the evil persons and would welcome the good friends from your heart.
O bride, thou give though to that proclamation alone, by which thou may meet with thy Friend.
Thou, surrender thy body and soul to God, thy Friend; sublime is the pleasure this.
Contract thou not love with him, who appears to be destined to depart.
Nanak, they who understand it this wise, unto them I am a sacrifice.
If thou wish to swim across the water, then consult thou those who know the art to swim.
For, even those who considere themselves very wise have been ruined by these whirl-pools.
Amidst continued rains, storms, floods and surging of lacs of waves, if thou shout for help to thy True Guru,
then there shall be no fear, that thy ship shall flounder.
Nanak, what has happened to the world?
Where there is no friend or guide.
Love has ceased even among brethren and kinsmen.
How unfortunate, that for the sake of such a world, the mortals have lost their faith.
They utter 'alas, alas' and say 'Oh, Oh', to bemoan death.
They strike their cheeks and pluck their head's hair.
But if they recite the Lord's Name and merge therein,
then, unto them, Nanak, would be a sacrifice.
O my soul, wabble thou not in the crooked way and go along the straight path.
Behind thee, is the dreadful tiger and in front the pool of fire.
My mind is in doubt and I see no other way of escape.
Nanak, abiding with God, the Beloved, by the Guru's grace, the mortal is emancipated.
Whosoever is blessed with the True Guru's instruction, he slays his mind and thus the tiger too is slain.
He, who understands himself, meets with his God and then dies not again.
Whosoever, with his eyes, sees the Lord alone his hand is soiled not with mud.
Nanak, the Guru-wards, whom Guru, the ocean, has put on the True Path are saved.
If thou wish to quench the fire, then seek thou the water of the Lord's Name, however, without the Guru, this ocean of water is found not.
Even if thou do lacs to other deeds, thou shall continue to wander in birth and death.
If man walks in the True Guru's will, then he is taxed not by the death's myrmidon.
Nanak, he attains the immaculate eternal status and the Guru unites him in the Lord's union.
The crow rubs and washed itself in the small pool of the saline land.
Its mind and body are dirty with demerits and its beak too is filled with filth.
The swan of the pool associated with crow, not knowing that it is an evil bird.
Such is the love with the mammon-worshipper. Understand thou this, O divine, through the Lord's love.
Shout thou the victory of the saints' society and do the deeds of a pious person.
Immaculate is the ablution, O Nanak, at the sacred shrine of the Guru-river.
What should I reckon as the advantage of human-birth, when one loves not the Lord's devotion?
Useless is man's wearing and eating, when there is duality in his mind.
False is the seeing and hearing of those, who, with their mouth, recite falsehood.
O Nanak, praise thou the Lord's Name, for, the rest is but coming and going in self-conceit.
The saints are few and not many. The rest is but a show and wrangling in this world.
Nanak, then alone, man is deemed to have been God-struck, if he dies instantaneously and is left with no longing to live.
If man dies with such a stroke, then alone, becomes he acceptable.
He, whom, the Lord strike, he alone is struck. After such a stroke, the, becomes he approved.
The arrow of love, charged by the Omniscient Lord can be extracted not.
Who can wash the vessel, which is unbaked in its construction?
Uniting the five elements together, the Lord has given it a false gilding.
When it pleases Him, He sets the vessel aright.
In, it then, supreme Light shines and he celestial strain resounds.
They, who are utterly blind in their mind, they known not the dignity to keep their word.
Through blind mind and reversed heart lotus, they look extremely ugly.
Some know, how to speak and understand what is the said. Wise and handsome are those persons.
Some know neither inner melody nor the divine knowledge nor the bliss of music. They realise not good from bad as well.
Some have no idea of perfection, wisdom and understanding and they know not even the mystery of the Guru's word.
Nanak, the real donkey likr are those persons, who take pride without merits.
He alone is a Brahman, who knows the Transcendent Lord.
Who performs the deeds of devotion, austerity and self-restrain.
Who observes the faith of humility and contentment,
and is emancipated by breaking the bonds.
Such a Brahman alone is worthy of being worshipped.
He alone is a Khatri, who is brave in good deeds.
Who yokes his body in charity and alms-giving,
and who ascertaining the farm to be right, sows the seed of beneficence.
Such a Khatri alone becomes acceptable in the Lord's court.
However, whosoever practises greed, avarice and falsehood,
he must receive the fruit of his own deeds.
Heat thou not thy body like a furnace and burn not thine bones like the fire-wood.
What wrong thine head and feet have done? Pray see thy Spouse within thee.
Within all the heart abides the Groom. Without the Groom there is no heart.
Nanak, they alone are the chaste brides, to whom their Lord becomes manifest by the Guru's grace.
If thou yearn to play the game of love,
step on to my path, with thy head placed on the palm of thy hand.
Once thou set thy feet on this path,
then lay down thy head and mind not public opinion.
False is the friendship of the mammon-worshippers, false is its very foundation.
O Mulla, it is not know at what place death shall come to the mortal?
Bereft of Divine knowledge, man adores ignorance.
Through the love of another, he gropes through darkness.
Without the Guru, there is no Divine knowledge and without faith there is no meditation.
Without truth there is no credit and without capital no balance.
Man is sent into the world and then he gets up and departs.
There is no pleasure is this thing, if he reaps not any profit.
With great mental effort Ram Chander gathered his army, in utter sadness.
The army of monkeys was also at his service and in his mind and body, he became infinitely zealous of war.
Ten-headed Rawan had taken away Sita, his wife and Lachhman had died of the curse.
Nanak, the Creator-Lord is the doer of all the deeds. Destroying what He himself created, He watches it all.
Within his mind, Ram Chander mourned for Sita and Lachhman.
He remembered, Hanuman, the monkey-god and he came to meet him.
The misguided demon knows not that wondrous are the deeds, which He, the Lord does.
Nanak, the past deeds which He, the Care-free Lord, rewards are ineffaceable.
Wrath and tyranny ravaged the city of Lahore for three and a quarter hours.
3rd Guru.
The city of Lahore is the pool of Nectar and the home of praise.
1st Guru.
What is the sign of an affluent person. Inexhaustible is his store of grain.
Affluence abides in his home, where resounds the uproar of girls and women.
His several (seven) brides of the house bewail and weep over useless thing.
Whatever he takes, that he gives not back and is ever uneasy seeking to earn more and more wealth.
O water-lily, thou were as green as lotus and had gold like colour.
Asks Nanak, "what pain has burnt thee and has made thy body black?"
(Replies the water-lily:) My body is torn as I see not water, my beloved, with whom is my comradeship,
and seeing whom my body blossoms and I am blessed with four coats of colour.
No man lives up to his fill and none departs, achieving his object.
The divine alone lives for ever and ever. It is through meditation that one is honoured.
Bit, by bit, husbanding and economising, the life passes away in vain.
Nanak, to whom should one complain? Death takes away the mortal without his consent.
Impute not blame to the Sovereign Lord. Man's intellect forsakes him when he grows old.
The blind man talks much and then falls into ditches and pits.
All that the perfect Lord does is perfect. There is no deficiency or excess in it.
Nanak, realising such a thing by the Guru's grace, the mortal merges in the perfect Lord.
Slok 3rd Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He attained.
These are not called mendicants, within whose mind there is doubt.
Whoever offers alms to them, he earns the matching merit, O Nanak.
Some are blessed with the supreme status of being the beggar of the Fear-free and Immaculate Lord.
Some rare one, O Nanak, obtains an opportunity to serve food to him.
If one be a scholar, an astrologer and extempore reciter of the four Vedas,
and be known in the nine regions of the earth for wisdom and deliberation; all this is in vain.
He who kills a spiritual person, a cow and daughters and accepts the food of an evil man,
is cursed with leprosy of reproaches, misdeed and an abiding egotism.
So many sins cling to him, who forgets the One Name, O Nanak.
May all the knowledge be burnt save alone the Lord's wisdom.
Whatever is writ on the forehead by the Lord, that no one can erase.
Nanak, whatever is writ, that comes to pass. He alone understands it, one whom is God's grace.
Attached to false greed, they, who forget the Name,
have the fire of desire in their mind and are engrossed in the affairs of the enticing mammon.
They, who like pumpkin climb not the creeper, are cheated by mammon-cheat.
The egocentrics join not with the herd of saints and are bound and driven off.
By His misguiding, one is misled. The Lord, of himself, unites in His Union.
Nanak! If man walks in the True Guru's will, he is then delivered by the Guru's grace.
I praise the praiseworthy Lord and again sing the glory of the True Lord.
Nanak, the one Lord alone is true, so, forsake all other doors.
Nanak, wheresoever I go, thither find I that True Lord.
Wherever I see, there I see the One Lord. It is by the Guru's grace, that He becomes manifest.
The name is the dispeller of distress, only if some one enshrines it in the mind.
By the Guru's grace, it abides in the mind and by God's grace one attains unto the Guru.
Nanak, practising ego and self-conceit, lacs, myriads and numberless men have pined away to death.
Who have met with the True Guru, are saved by contemplating the True Name of the Inscrutable Lord.
I fall at the feet of those persons who serve their True Lord, with single mind.
Through the Guru's word, God dwells in the mind and the hunger for wealth departs.
Immaculate and clean are the persons, who through the Guru, merge in the Lord's Name.
Nanak, false are other empires. They alone are the true kings, who are imbued with the Lord's Name.
As a devoted wife in her husband's home intensely desiring to perform lovable service for him,
prepares and serves him with saltish, sour and sweet delicacies of many savours,
similarly the saints praise the Guru's word and apply their mind to the Lord's Name.
They place their soul, body and wealth before the Guru and going before him, sell their head too.
In His fear, His devotees greatly long for the Lord's meditation. Fulfilling their desire, the Lord blends them with Himself.
Care-free is my God Lord. What is it, eating which He is satiated?
Whosoever walks in the True Guru's will and sings the Lord's praises; he, verily, does please Him.
Blest, blest are they, in the Darkage, O Nanak, who in the Guru's way.
They, who serve not the True Guru and keep not the Name enshrined in their mind;
Accursed is their life. Why did they come into the world?
If by Guru's instruction, God's fear abides in the mind, then alone one is attuned to the Lord's elixir.
By virtue of the primal writ, man is blessed with the Name and then, O slave Nanak, he is ferried across.
The world wanders in the love of riches and it knows not that its home is being plundered.
Blind is the egocentric in this world and his mind is lured away by lust and wrath.
He alone, who by the Guru's instruction slays the five demons with the sword of Divine knowledge, remains awake.
The jewel of the Name becomes manifest unto him and his soul and body are rendered pure.
Without the Name, man wanders chopped of nose. Bereft of the Name, he sits and bewails.
Nanak whatever is writ by the Lord-Creator, that no one can erase.
Reflecting on the Guru's words the Guru-wards earn the God's riches.
They receive the Name's wealth, brimful are whose inexhaustible treasures.
Through the Guru's word, they recite the Lord's praise, whose limit and end can be known not.
Nanak, the Maker does all the deeds and He, the Creator beholds all.
Within the hearts of the Guru-ward is equipoise and his mind mounts to the tenth sky.
There one slumbers and hungers not and lives and peace in the Nectar-Name of God.
Nanak, pain and pleasure cling not to man there, where there is the illumination of the All-pervading soul.
Wearing the gown of lust and wrath, every one has come into this world.
Some are born and some pass away. It is the Lord's will that one comes and goes.
Their comings and going end not. They are imbued with the love for another.
Bound in bonds, they are made to wander and can do naught.
They, to whom the Lord shows mercy, they come and meet with the True Guru.
Meeting with the True Guru, man turns away from the world and dying to self, he lives all-too-spontaneously.
Nanak, imbued with the Lord God's devotion, one merge in His Name.
Mercurial is the mind of the perverse person. Within him is great cleverness.
Whatever he did or does goes in vain. Not even an iota of it becomes acceptable.
Charity and alms, that one gives, allege to the Righteous judge.
Without the True Guru, death's courier leaves not man and another's love ruins him.
Youth glides imperceptibly away and when old age comes, the mortal dies.
Man is involved in the love and affection of his children and wife, however, none of them becomes his friend and succourer in the end.
Whosoever serves the True Guru, he obtains peace and the Name comes and abides in his mind.
Nanak, great and very fortunate are they, who by the Guru's grace, merge in the Name.
The egocentrics contemplate not the Name and without the Name, wail in pain.
They worship not the All-pervading Soul, How can they obtain peace from another?
Within them, is the filth of ego. that they wash not with the Lord's Name.
Nanak, wasting the invaluable human life without the Name, they die in filth.
The egocentrics are deaf and blind, within them is the fire of desires.
They understand not the Guru's word with full concentration and illumine not their mind with the Name.
They know not their inner-self and put up not faith in the Guru's word.
Within the mind of the God-conscious beings is enshrined the Guru's word and they ever, and always bloom in their Lord's love.
God saves the honour of the gnostics. Unto them I am ever a sacrifice.
Servant Nanak is the slave of those, who serve their Lord, by the Guru's grace.
O mother, the world is surrounded by the poisonous snake and the serpent of mammon.
The antidote of this poison is the Lord's Name. The Guru puts the Name's spell of eagle in man's mouth.
They who are so pre-destined, they come and meet with the True Guru.
Meeting with the True Guru, they become pure and their poison of ego is eradicated.
Bright are the faces of the Guru-wards and they obtain honour in the God's Court.
Slave Nanak, is ever a sacrifice unto them, who walk in the True Guru's walk.
Uninimical is the Divine True Guru, who is his mind is ever attuned to the Lord.
Whosoever practises enmity with the uninimical one, he sets his own home on fire.
Within him is wrath and ego, wherewith he burns night and day and ever suffers sorrow.
They who eat the poison of another's love, utter and tell lies and ever continue barking.
For the sake of poisonous riches they wander from house to house and thus lose their honour.
They are like the son of prostitute, the name of whose father is known not.
They contemplate not the Lord God's Name and the Creator, of Himself, ruins them.
God shows mercy unto the Guru-wards and unites the separated ones with Himself.
Slave Nanak is a sacrifice unto him, who repairs to the Guru's feet.
They, who are attached to the Name, are saved. Without the Name mortals go to the Yama's city.
Nanak, without the Name, there is no peace and coming and going in myriad births the have to repent.
When anxiety and wanderings end, then alone the soul becomes happy.
The bride who by the Guru's grace, realises he Lord sleeps peacefully.
They, who are so pre-destined; they meet with their Guru-God.
Nanak, they attain unto God, the embodiment of Supreme bliss and all-too-spontaneously remain blended with Him.
They, who serve their true Guru, reflect upon the Guru's word,
submit to the True Guru's will, keep the God's Name enshrined in their mind,
and are dedicated to the trade of the Lord's Name, are honoured here and hereafter.
It is through the Name, that the pious persons gain recognition in that True Guru.
The True Name is their merchandise, the True Name their sustenance and within them is the love of their-Beloved.
The Creator-Lord, of Himself, forgives them and the death's minister comes not near them.
Nanak, they alone are wealthy, who are imbued with the Name. The rest of the world is but poor.
God's slave's support is the God's Name. Without the Lord's Name, he has not other place and abode.
By the Guru's instruction, the Name abides in the man's mind and through it, he easily merges in the Lord.
The very fortunate contemplate the name and day and night embrace love for it.
Serf Nanak asks for the dust of their feet, I am ever a sacrifice unto them.
Eighty-four lacs of existence, of the earth burn in desire and bewail.
All this ostentation of the worldly love goes not with one at the last moment.
Without the Lord, peace is attained not. Before whom should one supplicate?
Through the greatest good luck, one meets with the True Guru and realises the Lord's meditation.
Enshrining the Lord within the mind, O serf Nanak, the fire of desire is all quenched.
I commit many sins, O Lord, of which there is no limit and end.
O God, mercifully pardon Thou me, I am a sinner and a great offender.
My reverend God! If Thou reckon my misdeeds, then, my turn to be pardoned may not come. Forgiving me, unite Thou me with Thyself.
Effacing all my sins and transgressions, the Guru, of his own pleasure, has blended me with my God Lord.
O Nanak, the slave, hail unto those, who meditate on the Name of their God Lord.
They, who are separated, and drifted away from God, meet with Him through the fear and love of The True Guru.
Contemplating the Name, through the Guru's Grace, they gain eternal status by effacing birth and death.
Meeting with the saint Guru's society, the jewel and emeralds are found.
Nanak, invaluable is the jewel of the Lord's Name. The Guru-wards seek and obtain it.
The egocentric contemplates not the Name. Accursed is his life and accursed his abode.
He whose bounties, man eats and wears, that Lord, the Treasure of virtues, he enshrines not in his mind.
This mind of his pierced not with the Name. How can he abide in the True abode?
The way-ward and discarded brides are ruined in coming and going.
The Name is the groom of the chaste bride and on their forehead is writ the acquisition of the Name jewel.
They enshrine the Lord God's Name in their mind and God illumines their heart lotus.
They, who serve their True Guru, unto them I am ever a sacrifice.
Nanak, illumined are the countenances of those, within whose mind is the Name's light.
He, who dies through the Name, that man is exonerated, Without the Name, one is emancipated not.
They, who wear religious garbs and perform many rituals, are ruined. Through another's love the world is wasted away.
Nanak, without the True Guru, the Name is attained not, even though one may long for it hundreds of times.
Supremely great and high and the highest of the high is the Lord's Name.
No one can reach up to it, even though one may crave for it a hundred times.
Though every one may walk about wearing garb of religious, however, one becomes pure by uttering piety with the mouth.
Whosoever goes and ascents the Guru's ladder, by good fortune, he is blessed with the Lord's Name.
Any one, who reflects on the Guru's word, the Lord comes and abides within him.
Nanak, dying unto oneself, through the Name, the mind is pleased. True is the glory of the true mortal.
The love of wealth is an arduous ocean of pain and poison, which can be crossed not.
The egocentrics pass their life taking pride and saying "it is mine, it is mine"; they putrefy to death.
The perverse persons are neither on this shore nor on the yonder one. They remain entangled mid-way.
They do only that what is predestined for them and can do naught else.
By the Guru's instruction, the jewel of gnosis abides in the man's mind and then he easily sees the Lord in all.
Nanak, the very fortunate ones embark on the True Guru's ship and them, the True Guru ferries across the dreadful ocean.
Without the True Guru, there is no other benefactor, who can bless man with the support of the Lord's Name.
By the Guru's grace, the Name is enshrined in his mind and he ever keeps it clasped to his heart.
Through the love of the God's Name, his desire is stilled and he is satiated.
When God showers His benediction, then alone, O Nanak. He is obtained by the Guru's grace.
Without the Name, the world has gone so much mad that one can describe it not.
They, whom the Lord saves are saved and they attuned to His Name.
Nanak, the Creator-Lord, who has created all the creation, knows every thing.
The Brahman's have grown weary of performing Yajnas, Havans, pilgrimage to all the holies and reading the Puranas.
However, they are not rid of the poison of the love of worldly riches and, in ego, they continue coming and going.
Meeting with the True Guru, the filth is washed off and one meditate on All-wise Lord God.
They who serve their God, the Lord Master, unto them slave Nanak is ever a sacrifice.
The egocentrics give immense thought to riches, worldly love, many hopes, avarice and sins.
Such perverse persons become not stable and die and perish away in a moment.
If man is blessed with good fortune, then alone, he meets with the True Guru and eschews ego and sins.
Reciting the Lord's Name and reflecting on the Guru's word, slave Nanak is blessed with peace.
Without the True Guru, one can not perform the devotional service of God and can not love the Name.
Through the Guru's love and affection serf Nanak contemplates the Name.
As far as it lies in thy power, trust thou not the greedy person.
At the last moment, he shall deceive thee there, where no one will be able to lend thee a helping hand.
Whosoever associates with an apostate, to his countenance attaches the stigma of blackness.
Black are the faces of those greedy persons. They depart, losing their human life.
O Lord God, unite me with the society of saints, so that God's Name may come and abide within my mind.
O Nanak, the slave, singing the praises of God, the filth of birth and death is washed off.
Whatever God, the Creator-Lord has pre-ordained, that can be erased not.
The soul and body all belong to Him, God, the King, cherishes all.
The back-biters and slanderers remain hungry, die rolling in dust and their hand reaches nowhere.
Outwardly and with hypocrisy, they do all the good deeds, but in their mind and heart they practise deceit.
Whatever man sows in the farm of the body, that comes and stands before his eyes in the end.
Supplicates Nanak, O my Lord God, forgive Thou me and unite me with Thyself in Thy will.
The mortal realises not coming and going, neither sees he the Lord's Court.
He is wrapped up in the love of riches and, within his mind, is the darkness of ignorance.
Then alone awakes the slumbering man when the very heavy club hits him no the head.
The Guru-wards contemplate their Lord in time and they obtain the door of salvation.
Nanak, they themselves are saved and all their kinsmen and family members too ferry across.
Whosoever dies through the Guru's word, he alone is known to be dead.
By the Guru's grace, man is satiated with the God's elixir.
Through the Guru's word he is known in the Lord's Court.
Without the Name, everyone is dead.
The egocentric dies losing his very life.
They, who contemplate not the Lord's Name, wail in pain in the end.
Nanak, whatever the Creator-Lord does, that alone comes to pass.
The God-conscious beings, within whom is the consciousness of Divine knowledge, age not ever.
Ever and always recite they their Lord's praises and, within their mind, is God's contemplation.
They ever abide in blissful wisdom and deem woe are weal alike.
They perceive the One Lord and realise the All-pervading soul alone everywhere.
The egocentrics are like children and dotards who in their mind, cherish not the thought of God.
They do their deeds in ego and all go to the Righteous Judge.
The Guru-wards are good and immaculate. with the Guru's word, they look illustrious.
Not even a bit of filth clings to them, who walk in the True Guru's wail.
The impurity of an apostate is not washed off, even if hundreds of washings be given.
Nanak, the Guru-wards are united with God and they merge in the Guru's being.
He who does evil, how can he be emancipated?
He burns himself in his own rage.
The demented perverse person worries himself in strifes.
Turning Guru-wards, he comes to understand everything.
Nanak, the Guru-ward struggles with his own mind.
They, who serve not the Omnipotent True Guru and reflect not on the Lord's Name,
They are not said to be human beings, rather they are the foolish beasts and animals.
And, they have neither divine knowledge nor contemplation, they are dedicated not to the Lord's love and affection.
The perverse persons die in sin and they come and go again and again.
They, who meet with the living, alone live, enshrining God, the life of the world, on their mind.
Nanak, the Guru-wards look beauteous in that True Lord's court.
The Lord's palace, the Lord has built and in it abides the Lord Himself.
Burning off the love of riches, I have attained my God, through the Guru's instruction.
Contemplating the nine treasure of the Name, the mortal finds millions of invaluable things in the God's palace.
Blessed is the fortunate bride, O Nanak, who searches and finds her Lord, by the Guru's grace.
Through the greatest good fortune, man searches the palace in his body fortress and finds the Lord near him in the heart.
Involved in the supreme desire, greed and sin, the egocentrics wander about in ten directions.
Their love of wealth goes not and they die are born again and again.
Shedding his immense craving and sin, the mortal attains peace, by serving the True Guru.
Pondering over The Lord's Name, O slave Nanak, the pain of birth and death is shed off.
Contemplating the Lord God's Name, O my soul, thou shall obtain honour in the Lord's court.
All thine misdeeds and sins shall be erased and thou shall be rid of self-conceit and ego.
By the Guru's grace, the heart lotus blooms and one realises the All-pervading Lord contained all over.
O God, the Lord Master, show Thou mercy unto serf Nanak, that he may recite the Lord's Name.
In Dhanasri measure, then alone the bride is known to be wealthy, when she performs the service of the True Guru, O brother.
O brother, she should surrender her body and soul together with her life to the Sat Guru and ought to walk in his will.
O brother, I sit where God makes me sit, I stand where He makes me stand, and I go where He makes me go.
O brother, there is no other wealth as great as the True Name.
I ever sing the praises of the True Lord, O brother and ever abide with the True Lord.
Make thou the Lord's praise and virtues thy wear, O brother and thyself enjoy the relish of thy honour.
How, can I praise him, O brother? Unto his vision I am a sacrifice.
Great are the merits in the True Guru, O brother. If one has good destiny, then alone one attains unto the True Guru.
Some know not how to submit to the Lord's will and wander about in the love of another, O brother.
They obtain not refuge in the Guru's society and find no place to sit on, O brother.
Nanak, they alone accept the Lord's will, O brother, who are pre-destined to practise His Name.
Unto them I am a sacrifice, O brother and am ever devoted unto them.
True are the breads, which touch the Guru's feet.
They, who, night and day, serve their Guru, ever abide in bliss.
Nanak, beauteous appear their faces at the court of the True Lord.
True are the countenances and true the beards of those, who utter truth and practise the truth.
The True Name abides in their mind and they merge in the True Guru.
True is their capital and true their wealth and they obtain the sublime rank.
They hear truth, believe in truth and practise the true deeds.
Their seat is in the True court and they merge in the True Lord.
Nanak, without the True Guru, the True One is attained not and the egocentrics go astray.
In the love and affection of the water-treasure on sky, the pied-cuckoo cries out "Beloved, O my beloved".
Meeting with the Guru, I have received the cool water of the Lord's Name, which is the destroyed of all pain.
My thirst is quenched, Divine knowledge has welled up and past are my cries and screams of anguish.
Nanak, enshrining the Lord's Name in the mind, by the Guru's grace, peace wells up within the mortal.
O pied-cuckoo, recite thou the True Name and be attuned to the True Lord.
If thou recite the Name, becoming the Guru-ward, then, acceptable shall be thy prayer.
Contemplating the Lord's Name and accepting the Lord's will, thy thirst shall be quenched.
The low cloud rains in four directions and all-too-spontaneously the rain-drop falls in the pied-cuckoo's mouth.
Every thing is produced from the water and thirst is not quenched without water.
Nanak, whosoever in-drinks the Lord's water, he feels not hunger again.
Reciting the Lord's True Name, O sparrow-hawk, thou shall be embellished.
The True Guru shall show thee, that everything is with thee.
Understanding thy ownself, thou shall meet thy Beloved, whose rain of mercy, then, shall continually fall upon thee.
Slowly and steadily the Nectar shall rain upon thee and thy thirst and hunger shall all depart.
Thine cries and screams of anguish shall end and thy light shall merge in the Supreme Light.
Nanak, the chaste brides sleep in peace and are absorbed in the True Name.
From his very presence and in His true will, the Master has sent and forwarded the Guru-Cloud.
Indra mercifully rains and heavy is the incessant downpour.
The body and mind of the sparrow-hawk are pleased, when the Lord's rain-drop falls into its mouth.
Great becomes the growth of corn and wealth and the earth gets embellished.
Night and day, the mortals worship the Lord and merge in the Guru's word.
The True Lord, forgives them Himself and showing His mercy makes them walk in His will.
O brides, sins ye the Lord's praises and be absorbed in His True Name.
Make ye the decoration of the Lord's fear and remain attuned to the True Lord.
Nanak, through the Name, God abides in the mind and the mortal is released in the Lord's court.
O sparrow hawk, even if thou travel the entire earth ascending high in the sky,
without meeting with the True Guru, thou shall not obtain the Lord's water to quench your thirst and hunger.
The soul and body all belong to Him, the Lord and He has every-thing with Him.
Without being told, the Lord knows everything, so before whom else should we make a supplication?
Nanak, the One Lord is pervading all hearts and illumines the mortals through His Name.
O Nanak, he alone enjoys the spring season, who is immersed in the True Guru's service.
The Lord rains mercy on him and his mind and body all flower and, through him, the whole world becomes green.
Through the Name, whereby the body and heart are reverdured, one ever abides in bliss.
Nanak forgets not the Name, which has created all.
Nanak, spring is only for them, within whose mind, He, the Lord, abides by the Guru's grace.
When the Lord's mercy rains, the soul and body blossom and the entire world grows green.
Bathing early in the morn, whose Name should we take?
We should recite the Name of the Supreme Lord who is Omnipotent to destroy and create.
The Persian wheel too cries, "Thou, Thou" and recites sublime words.
The Lord is ever near, why thou call Him with a loud voice?
He, who has created the world and loves it, unto the God, I am a sacrifice.
If thou abandon thy self-conceit, then shall thy Spouse meet thee. This alone is the true thought.
Talking insipidly through ego, One can realise not the Lord's will.
The forest, grassy vales and the three worlds meditate on Thee, O Lord and thus ever pass their nights and days.
Without the True Guru, no one obtains the Lord. People have grown weary of continually reflecting on Him.
If the Lord casts His merciful glance, then, He Himself embellishes the mortal.
Approved is the coming into the world of those, O Nanak, who remember their Lord, by the Guru's grace.
Union with the Lord is obtained not through ochre-robes, nor is the union obtained through dirty dress.
Nanak, union with the Lord is obtained, under the True Guru's instruction, even while sitting in one's home.
If thou wander in four directions and read the Vedas, through the four ages, it is all vain.
Nanak, if thou meets with the True Guru, the Lord shall dwell within thy mind thou shall obtain the door of salvation.
Nanak! A person with perverse mind wanders about at the bidding of his mercurial mind, so is the Lord's will.
O friend, when thou make friendship with the perverse person, then whom thou for peace?
Make thou friendship with the pious person and attach thy mind with the True Guru.
Thiswise, thy root of birth and death shall be cut and then thou shall be blest with peace, O friend.
The Lord, of Himself, instructs those strayed ones on whom He castes His merciful glance.
Nanak, those who are bereft of the Lord's gracious glance, bemoan and bewail.
Salok, 4th Guru.
There is but One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Very fortunate and chaste are the brides, who meet with their God, the King, through the Guru.
The Divine Light shines within them and they merge in the Name, O Nanak.
Blest, blest is the Omnipotent True Guru, who has realised the True Lord,
and meeting with whom the thirst is quenched and one's body and soul are cooled.
Hail, hail is unto the True Guru, the Truth incarnate, in whose eyes all are alike.
Great, great is the enmity-free True Guru to whom slander and praise are alike.
Great, great is the Omniscient true Guru, within whom is the Lord's comprehension.
Great, great is the True Guru, the Formless Being, whose end and limit can not be known.
Great, great is he, the True Guru, who confirms the mortals in Truth.
Nanak, Great, great is the True Guru through whom one is blessed with the Name.
The recitation of the Name of God, the Lord Master, is the true bliss of the Guru-wards.
Praising the name night and day and contemplating their God, their mind becomes happy.
By great good fortune, they attain unto their God, the Embodiment of perfect and supreme bliss.
Serf Nanak praises the Lord's Name and no obstacle shall again befall his mind and body.
I have love with my Beloved. How can I meet with my sweet friend?
I search for that friend, who is embellished with truth.
The True Guru is my friend. If I meet him, then would I sacrifice this soul of mine unto him.
He has shown me the Beloved God, my Friend and Creator.
Nanak I was searching for my Dear Groom, however, the True Guru has shown Him to be with me.
I stand on the roadside, O my friend, in thy wait; May be Thou may come.
Let some on come and make me meet my love today and unite me in His union.
I shall but my body into four pieces for him, who shows me my Darling Spouse.
Nanak, when the Lord becomes merciful, then He makes man meet the perfect Guru.
Within the human body is the sway of ego and worldly valuables and the false one continues coming and going.
When Guru's command is not followed, the arduous ocean is not crossed.
On whom-so-ever the Lord casts His merciful glance, he walks in the True Guru's will.
Fruitful is the vision of the True Guru. Through it, the mortal attains the fruit, that he wishes for.
I repair to the feet of those, who believe in the True Guru.
Nanak is the attendant of those, who, night and day, remain attuned to the Lord.
They, who bear love to their Beloved, how can they be satiated without His vision?
Nanak, they easily meet with their Lord through the Guru, and their soul blooms.
They, who love their spouse, how can they live without their Dear one?
When they see their Spouse they again become green.
They within whom, Thou enshrine Thy love, through the Guru, O my True Beloved;
Night and day, they remain immersed in Thy love, O Nanak.
True is the love of the pious person, through which he attains unto his True Beloved.
Night and day, he remains in bliss and merges in his Lord, the embodiment of equipoise, O Nanak.
True love and affection are obtained from the Perfect Guru.
Singing God's praises, O Nanak, they break not ever.
They, within whom is the true love, how can they live without their spouse?
O Nanak, through the Guru, the Lord unites with Himself those, who since long are separated from Him.
Showing Thy mercy, they, whom Thou Thyself, attaches with thy love and affection, O Lord God,
Make, Thou Nanak meet with them and bless him, Thy mumper, with Thy Name.
In Thy love, O Lord, the Guru-ward laughs and in Thy love, the Guru-ward seeps.
Whatever the Guru-ward does, that is the Lord's devotional service.
Whosoever turns Guru-ward. he reflects on the Lord.
The Guru-ward, ferries across the world ocean, O Nanak.
They who cherish the Name treasure within them and reflect over the Guru's word,
Their countenances are ever bright, in the court of that True Lord.
They, whom the Creator, of Himself, forgives, they forget not their Lord ever, down-sitting or upstanding.
The holyman, whom the Creator-Lord unites with Himself, those united ones, O Nanak, separate not again.
Supremely difficult is the service of the Guru and the spiritual guides, however, in it is the essence of bliss.
He on whom the Lord casts His merciful glance, him, He inspires with His love and affection.
Attached to the True Guru's service, the world crosses the terrible world ocean.
He, within whose mind is discriminating contemplation, obtains his heart-desired fruit.
Nanak, meeting with the True Guru, one attains his Lord, the Remover of all the sorrows.
The perverse person, who performs service, however, attached him mind to another's love.
He increases his love of wealth, he sons, wife and kinsmen.
He shall be called to account in the Lord's Court. No one can save him in the end.
Without the Lord's Name all is misery. Agonising is the love of mammon.
Nanak, through the Guru, the mortal realises that because of the love of mammon all are separated from their Lord.
The Guru-ward obeys the order of her Spouse and attains peace in His will.
In his will, serves, in His will, she contemplates and in His will, she merges and makes others merge in the Lord.
To abide in the Lord's will, is her fasting, vow, purity and self-restraint and through it, she obtains the fruits, her mind desires.
Ever a chaste bride is she, who realises her Lord's will and, inspired with love, serves the True Guru.
Nanak, they, on whom, the Lord showers His benediction, them He merges in His will.
The wretched apostate realises not her Lord's will and ever does deeds in ego.
Practising fasting, religious routines, piety, self-discipline and worship, hypocrisy and doubt depart not.
They are impure from within, are pierced through with the love of riches and are like the elephant, who, after bathing, throws dust on Himself.
They contemplate not Him, who created them. How can they obtain peace without His contemplation?
Nanak, the Creator-Lord has created the world and mortal does what is pre-ordained for him.
The Guru-ward has faith in his Lord and his mind is pleased; performing the Lord's service night and day, he merges in him.
The Great God abides within the True Guru's mind. Everyone adores him and everyone comes to see his vision.
Believe thou in the True Guru, the great discriminator, meeting with whom, one's thirst and hunger all depart.
Ever am I a sacrifice unto my Guru, who makes me meet with the True Lord.
Nanak, they alone are blessed with true destiny, who come and fall at the Guru's feet.
The Beloved, with whom I have love, that friend is with me.
I walk within and without my home however, in every case, remember I him in my mind.
They, who remember God with focused mind and whole heart attach their soul to the True Guru.
They are rid of pain, hunger and the great malady of ego and attuned to God, they become disease-free.
The Lord's praise they sing, the Lord's praise they recite and in the Lord's praise they sleep and merge.
Nanak, it is through the Perfect Guru, that they attain unto the Lord, who then comes and easily meets them.
The egocentric feels love for wealth and enshrines not affection for the Lord's Name.
He practises falsehood, amasses falsehood and partakes of the food of falsehood.
He dies gathering the poisonous property and wealth and, in the end, all is reduced to ashes.
He performs religious ceremonies, purification and self-restraint, however, within him, is the sin of avarice.
Nanak, whatever the egocentric does, that becomes not acceptable and, in the Lord's Court, He becomes miserable.
Amongst all the musical measures, that alone is sublime, O brother, by which the Lord comes to abide into the mind.
The melodies in which the Guru's word is sung. are all true. Their worth can be told not.
The Lord is beyond melodies and airs. Merely through these, His will can be realised not.
Nanak, they alone are right, who realise their Lord's will. It is they who are blessed with understanding by the True Guru.
Everything comes to pass through Him, as per His will.
Within the True Guru is enshrined the Lord's Nectar Name. It is the Nectar Name that he recites and makes others recite too.
By the Guru's instruction, one meditates on the immaculate Name, yea, the Lord's immaculate Name.
The Nectar-word of the True Guru is the quintessence. By the Guru's grace, it comes to abide in the man's mind.
Through it, the heart lotus blossoms and the light blends with the Supreme Light.
Nanak, they alone meet with the True Guru, on whose forehead sublime destiny is pre-writ.
Within the mind of an apostate is the fire of desire, so, his hunger departs not.
Totally false is the love of kinsmen and, to falsehood and apostate is clinging.
Night and day, he gives thought to anxiety and bound to anxiety departs he.
His coming and going end not and he does deeds in ego.
Seeking the Guru's refuge, he is emancipated and the Guru rides him of the bonds, O Nanak.
The True Guru meditates on the Lord God and the saints' congregation loves the True Guru.
Joining the society of saints, they, who serve the True Guru, them, the Guru unites in the Lord's union.
This world and universe is a dreadful ocean. Embarking on the ship of the Lord's Name, the Guru ferries the mortal across it.
The disciples of the Guru accept the Lord's will and the Perfect Guru ferries them across.
O God, bless Thou me with the dust of the feet of the Guru's disciples, that, I, a sinner, may also be emancipated.
They, on whose forehead the Lord God has so pre-ordained, them, comes to meet Nanak, the Guru.
The Guru beats and drives away the couriers of death and rescues them in the Lord's Court.
Blessed are the Guru's sikhs, whom the Lord unites in His union, through His pleasure.
The perfect Guru has enshrined the Lord's Name in me, which has dispelled doubt from within me.
Singing the praise of the Lord's Name, the God's path is illumined and the Guru shows it to his sikhs.
Slaying me self-conceit, I am attuned to One God and have enshrined the Name within me.
By virtue of the Guru's instruction, the 'Yama' can eye me not and I am merged in the True Name.
All by Himself, the Creator-Lord is pervading every where, He engages anyone in His Name, whomsoever He likes.
Then alone, serf Nanak lives, If he recites the Name, Without the Name, he dies in a moment.
Within the mind of the mammon-worshippers is the malady of ego. Those evil persons stray in doubt and ego.
Meeting with Saintly True Guru, the friend, O Nanak, this malady is eradicated.
By the Guru's instruction, the chaste bride recites the God's Name.
Day and night, she remains attracted by the Lord's love and her body garment is imbued with God and God's love.
I have seen and searched the whole world and have found not any person like my Lord.
The Great True Guru has implanted the Name within me and my mind now wabbles not anywhere else.
Servant Nanak is the attendant of God and the slave of the slaves of the Great True Guru.
Slok 5th Guru.
There is bur One God. By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Imbued with the Lord's love are they alone, who realise their Lord and turn not their face away from Him.
The false lovers, who know not the talk of the Lord's love fall off mid-way.
Without my Master, I will burn in fire the silk and stain robes.
Says Nanak, with thee, O my Spouse, I look beauteous, even when rolling in dust.
Through the Guru's word, man contemplates the Name with love and becomes detached.
When he overwhelms the five enemies, O Nanak, fruitful then becomes this Maru measure.
When I have the One Lord, then gain I lakhs. Men like thee beg at many doors.
O Brahman, thy life has passed away in vain, since thou have forgotten Him, who created thee.
Through Sorath measure, in-drink thou the Nectar, that grows not insipid ever.
Nanak singing the praise of the Lord's Name, immaculate becomes one's glory in the Lord's Court.
They, whom the Lord, of Himself, saves, them, no one can slay.
Within them is the treasure of the Lord's Name and they cherish ever the Lord's virtues.
They have the support of the One Unfathomable Being and, in their mind and body, they enshrine Lord.
They are imbued with the love of the Infinite Lord and none can doff it off.
Singing the God's praise, by the Guru's grace, they attain the Supreme bliss.
Within their mind and heart, O Nanak, they wear the garland of the Name treasure.
Whatever the Lord does, accept thou that as good and forsake thou all other counts.
Seeing thee with His gracious glance, the Lord shall attach thee with Himself.
O man, instruct thou thy mind, that doubt may depart from within thee.
Whatever destiny is preordained for one, everyone does but that.
Everything is in His power, except Him, there is no other place of rest.
Submitting to the Lord, will, Nanak has become comfortable and happy.
Supremely blissful become they, who meditate on the perfect Guru.
Nanak, by dwelling upon the Lord's Name, the affairs are adjusted.
The sinners commit evil deeds and then bemoan and bewail.
Nanak, as the churning-staff churns the curd, so does the Righteous Judge churn them.
They, who contemplate the Lord's Name, O friend, win the treasure of human life.
Nanak, the Righteous Judge addresses them thus, "my mansion, thou have rendered holy".
I am stuck in am evil place, through the sweet words of an evil-adviser.
Nanak, they alone are saved on whose forehead good fortune is writ.
They alone sleep and slumber in peace, who are imbued with the love of their Groom.
They, who are separated from the love of their Master, continue wailing throughout the eight watches of the day.
For the sake of false wealth myriads are asleep in ignorance.
Nanak, they alone are awake, who recite their Lord's Name with their tongue.
Seeing the optical illusion and the peopled phantom city, the mortals are gone astray.
They, who dwell upon their True Lord, beauteous look their soul and body, O Nanak.
The All-powerful and infinite supreme Lord Master is the Saviour of the sinners.
Whomsoever the Lord wishes to save, O Nanak, he contemplates his Creator-Lord.
Forsake thou the other evil-way and attach thy mind to the One Lord.
Through the love of another, O Nanak, the bride is being washed down the stream.
In the three-tier shopped bazars, the tradesmen strike the bargain.
They, who load the merchandise of the True Name, they alone are the true grocers.
The foolish bride, who knows, not the path of love, goes astray.
Forgetting the Lord, O Nanak, the mortals fall into the blind hell.
From his mind man forgets not wealth, Riches over riches, he asks for.
That Lord enters not his mind, O Nanak, the Lord is writ not in his destiny.
As long as the Lord Himself is merciful, so long, one's capital exhausts not ever.
Inexhaustible is the treasure of the word of Sire Nanak, howsoever one may eat and expend this wealth and property.
If I could find the wings on sale, I would buy them for an equal weight of my flesh.
Them, I would attach to my body and search for and find that Friend of mine.
My Friend is the True Monarch. He is the King over the heads of Kings.
Sitting by whose side one looks beauteous and who is the support of all.
There is but One God, By the True Guru's grace, is He obtained.
Slok 9th Guru.
If thou have not sung the praises of the World-Lord, thou have wasted thy life in vain.
Says Nanak, meditate thou on God, O man, like the way, the fish loves water.
Why are thou engrossed in the deadly sins and becomes not detached even for a moment?
Say Nanak, contemplate thou thy God, O man, that death's noose may fall on thee not.
They youth has passed away in vain and old age has overcome thy body.
Says Nanak, dwell thou on thy God, O man, thy life is fleeting away.
Thou have become old and thou see not that death has overtaken thee.
Says Nanak, O crazy man, why remember thou not thy Illustrious Lord?
Wealth, wife and all other property, which thou deem thy own;
None of these shall be thy companion. Know thou this as true, O Nanak.
God is the Saviour of sinners, the Destroyer of fear and the Master of the masterless.
Says Nanak, realise thou Him, who abides ever with thee.
Thou enshrine not affection for Him, for has given thee human body and riches.
Says Nanak, O crazy man, why now wobble thou like an abject person?
He, who has blessed thee with body, wealth, property happiness and beauteous mansions.
Says Nanak, hear thou, O my soul, why contemplate not thou thy Lord?
The Lord is the Giver of all comforts. Without there is not another.
Says Nanak, hearken thou, O my soul, meditating on Him, salvation is obtained.
Remember thou Him, O my friend, by contemplating whom one is emancipated.
Says Nanak, hearken, O mortal, thy age is diminishing ever.
O Clever and wise man, know that thy body is make up of five elements.
Be thou sure, O Nanak, that thou shall blend with Him, from whom thou have sprung.
The saints proclaim that the Venerable Lord abides in all hearts.
Says Nanak, contemplate thou Him, O my soul, that thou may cross the terrible world ocean.
Whomsoever touch not pleasure, pain, avarice, worldly love and self-conceit.
Says Nanak, hearken, O man, He is the very image of the Lord.
He who is above praise and dispraise and, to whom gold and iron are alike;
Says Nanak, hearken thou, O man, deem thou him to be emancipated.
He, who is affected not by pleasure or pain and to whom friend and foe are a like.
Says Nanak, hearken thou, O my soul, deem thou him to be emancipated.
Whosoever frightens none nor is afraid of anyone.
Says Nanak, her thou, O my soul, call thou him, a men of Divine knowledge.
He, who has abandoned all sins and has donned the garb of detachedness.
Says Nanak, hear thou, O my soul, good destiny is writ on that man's brow.
He who abandons wealth and worldly love and is detached from everything.
Says Nanak, hearken, thou, O man, within his mind, abides the Lord.
The mortal, who forsakes ego and realises his Creator-Lord.
Says Nanak, emancipated is that man. Deem thou this as true, O my soul.
In the Darkage, God's Name is the destroyer of dread and the banisher of evil-intellect.
Night and day, whosoever recites the Name, O Nanak, his tasks are accomplished.
Recite thou the Lord's praise with thy tongue and hear the God's Name with thine ears.
Says Nanak, hearken thou, O man, thiswise thou shall not go to the Yama's abodes.
The mortal who renounces mineness, avarice, worldly attachment and self-conceit.
Says Nanak, he himself is saved and saves others as well.
As is a dream and a show, so know thou this world to be.
Nanak, without the Lord, nothing is true in these.
Night and day, the mortal ever wanders for the sake of wealth.
But rare is the one among millions, who enshrines the Lord in his mind, O Nanak.
As the bubble ever appears and disappears on water.
So was the creation of the world made, says Nanak, hearken thou, O friend of mine.
Blinded by the wine of worldly valuables the mortal cherishes not his Lord even for a while.
Says Nanak, without the God's meditation, death's noose falls around him.
If thou desire eternal peace, then, seek thou the refuge of thy Lord.
Says Nanak, hearken thou, O man, difficult of attainment is this human body.
For the sake of riches, the foolish and ignorant, their life passes away in vain.
Says Nanak, Without the Lord's meditation, their life passes away in vain.
The mortal, who, night and day, contemplates his Lord, deem thou him to be His embodiment.
Between God's slave and God, there is no difference, O Nanak, understand thou this as true.
The man is entangled in mammon and he has forgotten the Lord's Name.
Says Nanak, without the Lord's meditation, of what avail is this human life?
Blinded by the wine of wealth, the mortal remembers not his Lord.
Says Nanak, without the God's meditation, death's noose falls around him.
Man finds many friends in prosperity, however, none becomes his friend in adversity.
Says Nanak, O man, ponder thou over thy God, who shall be thy succourer in the end.
Man wanders about in many births and his fear of death is removed not.
Says Nanak, O man, ponder thou over thy Lord, that thou may abides in the fearless God.
I have grown weary of making many efforts, but my mind's ego is effaced not.
I am engrossed in evil-intentions, says Nanak, 'save me, O save me, my illustrious Lord.
Know thou that there are three stages of life, childhood, youth and then old age.
Says Nanak, know thou that without the Lord's meditation all are in vain.
What thou should have done, that thou have done not. Thou are entangled in the net of covetousness.
Nanak! When one's times is past, why wail them, O blind man?
O friend, the mind is absorbed in riches and it can escape not from it,
just as a picture, painted on the wall, leaves it not, O Nanak.
Man seeks something, however, something totally different happens.
O Nanak, he thinks of deceiving others, however, a halter is put round his neck.
Man makes many efforts to obtain peace, however, makes none to fight pain.
Says Nanak, O man, understand, whatever pleases God, that alone happens.
The world wanders about as a beggar and the Lord alone is the Bestower of all.
Says Nanak, dwell thou on Him, O man, that thine tasks may be fulfilled.
Why take thou false pride? Know thou that the world is like a dream.
In it there is nothing, which is thine. Nanak proclaims and narrates this truth.
Thou entertain pride of thy body, which perishes in a moment, O friend.
The mortal, who recites the Lord's praise, he, O Nanak, conquers the whole world.
He, within whose mind is the Lord's meditation, consider him to be emancipated.
Between that man and God, there is no difference. Accept thou this as truth, O Nanak.
The mortal, who enshrines not the devotion of One Lord in his mind,
O Nanak, deem thou his body to be like that of a hog and a dog.
As a dog never abandons the home of his Master of his Master for aye;
Nanak, in this way, thou contemplate on God with focused mind and whole heart.
Whosoever, while going on pilgrimage, fasting and giving alms, takes pride in his mind,
Nanak, these deeds of him go in vain like the bathing of an elephant.
The head shakes, the feet stagger and the eyes become devoid of luster,
this has become thy condition, O man, even then thou are absorbed not in the Lord's Name Nectar, Says Nanak.
I have looked upon everyone as my own, however, I have observed that, in this world, no one is another's friend.
Nanak, permanent is only the devotional service of God. Enshrine thou that in thy mind.
Totally false is the structure of the world. Know thou this, O my friend.
Says Nanak, like the wall of sand, it remains not permanent.
Ram Chander passed away and Rawan, too, who has a large family, had to pass away.
Says Nanak, nothing is ever-lasting, the world is like a dream.
Only then one should worry, if a thing, not expected to happen, comes to pass.
This is the way of the world. None is ever stable, O Nanak.
Whosoever is born, he must perish. Every one shall fall today or tomorrow.
Nanak, thou sing the Lord's praises and lay aside all other entanglements.
Dohra.
My strength is exhausted, I am in chains and I can make not any effort.
Say Nanak, God alone is now my refuge. He will help me as he did the elephant.
I have regained my Power, my bonds are broken and all options are open on to me.
Nanak, everything is in thine hands. It is only thou who can assist thyself.
My associates and mates have all left me. None has remained with me to the last.
Says Nanak, in this calamity, the Lord alone is my support.
Only the Lord is eternal, His Name remains eternal and so are the saints.
Says Nanak, rare is the one, who reflects over the Guru's word, in this world.
The Lord's Name, of which there is no peer, I have clasped to my mind.
Such is thy Name, O Lord, remembering which my troubles end and I am blessed wit Thine vision.
Seal 5th Guru.
In the platter are placed three things, truth, contentment and meditations.
The Nectar-Name of the Lord, who is the support of all, has also been put therein.
If some one partakes this and relishes it, he is emancipated.
This can be forsaken not, so ever and always keep thou this enshrined in thy mind.
Repairing to the Lord's feet, the dark world ocean is crossed; O Nanak, everything is an extension of the Lord.
Slok 5th Guru.
O Lord, I have not appreciated, what thou have done for me, thou have made me worthy of Thy service.
In me, the meritless one, there is no virtue. Thou of Thyself, O my Lord, have taken pity on me.
Thou have shown mercy and rained Thine benediction on me. I have now met with the True Guru, my friend.
Nanak! Then alone I live and my body and soul blossom forth, if I am blessed with the Lord's Name.